
1. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2016 Dec 28. pii: S1350-9462(16)30051-9. doi:
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.12.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Primary angle closure glaucoma: What we know and what we don't know.

Sun X(1), Dai Y(2), Chen Y(2), Yu DY(3), Cringle SJ(3), Chen J(2), Kong X(2),
Wang X(2), Jiang C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai
Medical College, Fudan University, China; Key Laboratory of Myopia of State
Health Ministry (Fudan University) and Key Laboratory of Visual Impairment and
Restoration of Shanghai, China; State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology,
Institutes of Brain Science and Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain
Science, Fudan University, China. Electronic address: xhsun@shmu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai
Medical College, Fudan University, China; Key Laboratory of Myopia of State
Health Ministry (Fudan University) and Key Laboratory of Visual Impairment and
Restoration of Shanghai, China. (3)Centre for Ophthalmology and Visual Science,
The University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia; Lions Eye Institute, The
University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.

Primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) is a common cause of blindness. Angle
closure is a fundamental pathologic process in PAGC. With the development of
imaging devices for the anterior segment of the eye, a better understanding of
the pathogenesis of angle closure has been reached. Aside from pupillary block
and plateau iris, multiple-mechanisms are more common contributors for closure of
the angle such as choroidal thickness and uveal expansion, which may be
responsible for the presenting features of PACG. Recent Genome Wide Association
Studies identified several new PACG loci and genes, which may shed light on the
molecular mechanisms of PACG. The current classification systems of PACG remain
controversial. Focusing the anterior chamber angle is a principal management
strategy for PACG. Treatments to open the angle or halt the angle closure process
such as laser peripheral iridotomy and/or iridoplasty, as well as cataract
extraction, are proving their effectiveness. PACG may be preventable in the early
stages if future research can identify which kind of angles and/or persons are
more likely to benefit from prophylactic treatment. New treatment strategies like
adjusting the psychological status and balancing the sympathetic-parasympathetic 
nerve activity, and innovative medicines are needed to improve the prognosis of
PACG. In this review, we intend to describe current understanding and unknown
aspects of PACG, and to share the clinical experience and viewpoints of the
authors.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.12.003 
PMID: 28039061  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


2. J Ophthalmol. 2016;2016:2678017. Epub 2016 Nov 14.

Elevated Plasma Endothelin-1 Levels in Normal Tension Glaucoma and Primary
Open-Angle Glaucoma: A Meta-Analysis.

Li S(1), Zhang A(1), Cao W(2), Sun X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. (2)Department of Clinical Laboratory,
Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; 
Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai
Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology & Visual Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China; State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, 
Institutes of Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; Key Laboratory of
Myopia, Ministry of Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Visual Impairment and Restoration, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China.

Purpose. The aim of this meta-analysis was to clarify the association between the
plasma endothelin-1 level and the risks of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Methods. Relevant publications were collected
from three databases including PubMed, EMBASE, and the Web of Science through
December 31, 2015. In this study, the terms "(endothelin OR ET) AND glaucoma"
were searched. Review Manager 5.2 was used to process the data. Results. Seven
studies (212 cases, 164 controls) were included for the NTG analysis. The mean
plasma endothelin-1 level in the NTG subjects was 0.60 pg/mL (p = 0.02, 95% CI:
0.17-1.04) higher than that of the healthy controls. Six studies (160 cases, 174 
controls) were included for the POAG analysis, and the endothelin-1 level was
0.63 pg/mL (p = 0.007, 95% CI: 0.12-1.15) higher in the POAG subjects than in the
healthy controls. Additionally, two studies influenced the meta-analysis results 
regarding the association of plasma endothelin-1 with POAG by sensitivity
analysis, and the probability of publication bias was low. Conclusions. The
observation that NTG and POAG subjects showed significantly elevated endothelin-1
plasma concentrations suggests that a higher plasma level of endothelin-1 might
increase the risk of NTG and POAG development.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/2678017 
PMCID: PMC5124679
PMID: 27965889  [PubMed - in process]


3. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 8:1-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Detection of Glaucoma Using Image Processing Techniques: A Critique.

Kumar BN(1), Chauhan RP(1), Dahiya N(1).

Author information: 
(1)a School of Biomedical Engineering , National Institute of Technology ,
Kurukshetra , India.

OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of this article is to present a summary of
different types of image processing methods employed for the detection of
glaucoma, a serious eye disease.
INTRODUCTION: Glaucoma affects the optic nerve in which retinal ganglion cells
become dead, and this leads to loss of vision. The principal cause is the
increase in intraocular pressure, which occurs in open-angle and angle-closure
glaucoma, the two major types affecting the optic nerve. In the early stages of
glaucoma, no perceptible symptoms appear. As the disease progresses, vision
starts to become hazy, leading to blindness. Therefore, early detection of
glaucoma is needed for prevention.
METHODOLOGY/APPROACH: Manual analysis of ophthalmic images is fairly
time-consuming and accuracy depends on the expertise of the professionals.
Automatic analysis of retinal images is an important tool. Automation aids in the
detection, diagnosis, and prevention of risks associated with the disease. Fundus
images obtained from a fundus camera have been used for the analysis. Requisite
pre-processing techniques have been applied to the image and, depending upon the 
technique, various classifiers have been used to detect glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: The techniques mentioned in the present review have certain
advantages and disadvantages. Based on this study, one can determine which
technique provides an optimum result.

DOI: 10.1080/08820538.2016.1229801 
PMID: 27929730  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


4. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 18;10:2303-2309. eCollection 2016.

Bleb related infections: clinical characteristics, risk factors, and outcomes in 
an Asian population.

Yap ZL(1), Chin YC(2), Ku JY(2), Chan TK(1), Teh G(1), Nongpiur ME(3), Aung T(1),
Perera SA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore; Singapore Eye Research Institute,
Singapore. (2)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore. (3)Singapore Eye Research
Institute, Singapore; Duke NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore. (4)Singapore
National Eye Centre, Singapore; Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore; Duke
NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore.

PURPOSE: Comparison of the demographic, ocular, systemic and microbiological
characteristics of eyes with bleb related infection (BRI) and bleb related
endophthalmitis (BRE).
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of patients with BRI from January 1996-July
2013. Identification done via the center's longstanding endophthalmitis audit,
BRI audit and laboratory database identifying all conjunctival swabs from blebs. 
Blebitis was defined as anterior segment inflammation with mucopurulent material 
in or around the bleb, with anterior chamber cells but no hypopyon. BRE was
defined by the presence of hypopyon or vitreous inflammation.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients with blebitis and 10 with BRE were identified. Mean
age of subjects (n=39) was 68.4 (±13.3) with a preponderance of men (74.4%) and
Chinese ethnicity (74.4%). BRE patients were 10.7 years older than blebitis
patients (P=0.026). 28 (71.8%) subjects had primary open angle glaucoma. The
presenting intraocular pressure (IOP) dropped in blebitis but almost doubled in
BRE (P=0.011) compared to average preinfective IOP. Two weeks after treatment,
IOPs in both groups returned to close to preinfective levels. Subjects with
blebitis more often had an avascular bleb (88.0%) while those with BRE trended
toward a moderately vascular bleb (50%). The distribution of causative
microorganisms between the groups was similar.
CONCLUSION: Our study indicates that risk factors are similar in both groups even
though the visual outcome and clinical course, in the form of IOP findings and
bleb vascularity, can diverge significantly. The decreased IOP in blebitis
subjects represents objective evidence of subclinical leaks or bleb sweating.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S118809 
PMCID: PMC5125794
PMID: 27920489  [PubMed - in process]


5. BMB Rep. 2016 Dec 5. pii: 3717. [Epub ahead of print]

Role of cyclic AMP in the eye of glaucoma.

Shim MS, Kim KY, Ju WK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hamilton Glaucoma Center and Department of Ophthalmology, Shiley Eye
Institute, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.

Glaucoma is characterized by a slow and progressive degeneration of optic nerve, 
including retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons in the optic nerve head (ONH),
leading to visual impairment. Despite the high prevalence, the biological basis
of glaucoma pathogenesis still is not yet fully understood, and the factors
contributing to its progression are currently not well characterized. Intraocular
pressure (IOP) is the only modifiable risk factor, and reduction of IOP is the
standard treatment for glaucoma. However, lowering IOP itself is not always
effective for preserving visual function in patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma. The second messenger cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP)
regulates numerous biological processes in the central nervous system including
retina and optic nerve. Although recent studies revealed that cAMP generated by
adenylyl cyclases (ACs) is important in regulating aqueous humour dynamics in
ocular tissues such as ciliary body and trabecular meshwork as well as cell death
and growth in retina and optic nerve, the functional role and its significance of
the cAMP in the eye of glaucoma remain to be elucidated. In this review, we will 
discuss the functional role of cAMP in aqueous humour dynamics and IOP
regulation, and review the current medications, which are related to cAMP
signaling pathway, for glaucoma treatment. Also, we will further focus on cAMP
signaling in RGC growth and regeneration by soluble AC as well as ONH astrocytes 
by transmembrane ACs to understand its potential role in the pathogenesis of
glaucoma neurodegeneration.


PMID: 27916026  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


6. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 1;11(12):e0166915. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166915.
eCollection 2016.

Oxidative and Anti-Oxidative Stress Markers in Chronic Glaucoma: A Systematic
Review and Meta-Analysis.

Benoist d'Azy C(1,)(2), Pereira B(3), Chiambaretta F(1), Dutheil
F(2,)(4,)(5,)(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital of Clermont-Ferrand (CHU), Ophthalmology,
Clermont-Ferrand, France. (2)University Hospital of Clermont-Ferrand (CHU),
Preventive and Occupational Medicine, Clermont-Ferrand, France. (3)University
Hospital of Clermont-Ferrand (CHU), Clinical Research Direction,
Clermont-Ferrand, France. (4)CNRS Physiological and Psychosocial Stress, LAPSCO, 
University Clermont Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France. (5)Australian Catholic
University, Faculty of Health, School of Exercise Science, Melbourne, Australia. 
(6)University Clermont Auvergne, Laboratory of Metabolic Adaptations to Exercise 
in Physiological and Pathological conditions EA3533, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(7)Research Centre in Human Nutrition (CRNH) Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France.

Chronic glaucoma is a multifactorial disease among which oxidative stress may
play a major pathophysiological role. We conducted a systematic review and
meta-analysis to evaluate the levels of oxidative and antioxidative stress
markers in chronic glaucoma compared with a control group. The PubMed, Cochrane
Library, Embase and Science Direct databases were searched for studies reporting 
oxidative and antioxidative stress markers in chronic glaucoma and in healthy
controls using the following keywords: "oxidative stress" or "oxidant stress" or 
"nitrative stress" or "oxidative damage" or "nitrative damage" or "antioxidative 
stress" or "antioxidant stress" or "antinitrative stress" and "glaucoma". We
stratified our meta-analysis on the type of biomarkers, the type of glaucoma, and
the origin of the sample (serum or aqueous humor). We included 22 case-control
studies with a total of 2913 patients: 1614 with glaucoma and 1319 healthy
controls. We included 12 studies in the meta-analysis on oxidative stress markers
and 19 on antioxidative stress markers. We demonstrated an overall increase in
oxidative stress markers in glaucoma (effect size = 1.64; 95%CI 1.20-2.09),
ranging from an effect size of 1.29 in serum (95%CI 0.84-1.74) to 2.62 in aqueous
humor (95%CI 1.60-3.65). Despite a decrease in antioxidative stress marker in
serum (effect size = -0.41; 95%CI -0.72 to -0.11), some increased in aqueous
humor (superoxide dismutase, effect size = 3.53; 95%CI 1.20-5.85 and glutathione 
peroxidase, effect size = 6.60; 95%CI 3.88-9.31). The differences in the serum
levels of oxidative stress markers between glaucoma patients and controls were
significantly higher in primary open angle glaucoma vs primary angle closed
glaucoma (effect size = 12.7; 95%CI 8.78-16.6, P < 0.001), and higher in
pseudo-exfoliative glaucoma vs primary angle closed glaucoma (effect size = 12.2;
95%CI 8.96-15.5, P < 0.001). In conclusion, oxidative stress increased in
glaucoma, both in serum and aqueous humor. Malonyldialdehyde seemed the best
biomarkers of oxidative stress in serum. The increase of some antioxidant markers
could be a protective response of the eye against oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166915 
PMCID: PMC5131953
PMID: 27907028  [PubMed - in process]


7. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 25. [Epub ahead of print]

Genetics and genetic testing for glaucoma.

Miller MA(1), Fingert JH, Bettis DI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Iowa Hospitals 
and Clinics, Iowa City, Iowa, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: In recent decades, investigators have identified numerous
genes and genetic factors that cause or contribute risk for glaucoma. These
findings have increased our understanding of disease mechanisms, provided us with
new diagnostic tools, and may allow for development of improved therapies for
glaucoma. However, genetic testing is most useful when it is reserved for
appropriate patients. The purpose of this article is to review key points and
recent developments regarding the genetics and genetic testing for glaucoma and
to provide recommendations for when genetic testing may be warranted.
RECENT FINDINGS: Large genome-wide association studies have identified multiple
new susceptibility loci associated with primary open angle glaucoma and primary
angle closure glaucoma.
SUMMARY: Several glaucoma-causing genes and genetic risk factors for glaucoma
have been discovered. As a result, there are specific clinical scenarios in which
genetic testing is warranted. In select cases (i.e., familial juvenile open angle
glaucoma), genetic testing can serve as a powerful tool to improve diagnostic
accuracy, efficiency of disease surveillance, and selection of treatment,
enabling physicians to better optimize care for their patients.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000344 
PMID: 27898466  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


8. Genomics. 2017 Jan;109(1):27-35. doi: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2016.11.003. Epub 2016 Nov 
13.

Genetic variants associated with primary open angle glaucoma in Indian
population.

Kumar S(1), Malik MA(1), K S(1), Sihota R(2), Kaur J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ocular Biochemistry, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic
Sciences, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India. (2)Glaucoma 
Research Facility and Clinical Services, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for
Ophthalmic Sciences, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Ocular Biochemistry, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic
Sciences, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.. Electronic 
address: kaurjasbir@rediffmail.com.

Glaucoma is a very common disorder of the eye wherein the disturbance of the
structural or functional integrity of the optic nerve causes characteristic
atrophic changes in the optic nerve, which may lead to specific visual field
defects over time. Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is most frequent among the 
three principle glaucoma subtypes. With well-established role of genes like
Myocilin (MYOC), Optineurin (OPTN) and WD repeat Domain 36, (WDR36), at least 29 
genetic loci have been found till date to be linked to POAG. Moreover,
association studies have found 66 loci with 76 genes associated to POAG till date
with conflicting results. This particular study is to summarize the current
knowledge regarding the change in glaucoma prevalence worldwide and in India from
1993 onwards and compiles all the studied genes that are involved in POAG
pathogenesis in Indian population.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2016.11.003 
PMID: 27851990  [PubMed - in process]


9. Clin Interv Aging. 2016 Oct 12;11:1429-1432. eCollection 2016.

The prevalence of glaucoma in patients undergoing surgery for eyelid entropion or
ectropion.

Golan S(1), Rabina G(1), Kurtz S(1), Leibovitch I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Orbital and Ophthalmic Plastic Surgery, Department of
Ophthalmology, Tel Aviv Medical Center, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv
University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

PURPOSE AND DESIGN: The aim of this study was to establish the prevalence of
known glaucoma in patients undergoing ectropion or entropion surgical repair. In 
this study, retrospective review of case series was performed.
PARTICIPANTS: All patients who underwent ectropion or entropion surgery in a
tertiary medical center between 2007 and 2014 were included. The etiology of
eyelid malpositioning was involutional or cicatricial.
METHODS: The medical files of the study participants were reviewed for the
presence and type of glaucoma, medical treatment, duration of treatment, and the 
amount of drops per day. These data were compared to a matched control group of
101 patients who underwent blepharoplasty for dermatochalasis in the same
department during the same period.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: In this study, the prevalence of glaucoma in individuals
with ectropion or entropion was the main outcome measure.
RESULTS: A total of 227 patients (57% men, mean age: 79.2 years) who underwent
ectropion or entropion surgery comprised the study group and 101 patients who
underwent upper blepharoplasty for dermatochalasis comprised the control group.
Compared to four patients in the control group (4%, P=0.01), 30 of the study
patients (13.2%) had coexisting glaucoma. Of 30 glaucomatous patients, 25 had
primary open-angle glaucoma for a mean duration of 10.3 years. The glaucomatous
patients were treated with an average of 2.7 antiglaucoma medications.
CONCLUSION: An increased prevalence of known glaucoma in patients undergoing
ectropion or entropion repair surgery was found. This observation may indicate
that the chronic usage of topical anti-glaucoma eyedrops may lead to an increased
risk of developing eyelid malpositions, especially in elderly patients.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S97694 
PMCID: PMC5066692
PMID: 27785003  [PubMed - in process]


10. Clin Genet. 2016 Oct 25. doi: 10.1111/cge.12906. [Epub ahead of print]

The inheritance of Juvenile onset Primary Open angle glaucoma.

Gupta V(1), Somarajan BI(2), Gupta S(2), Chaurasia AK(2), Kumar S(2), Dutta P(2),
Gupta V(3), Sharma A(4), Tayo BO(5), Nischal K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Dr Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, All India Institute of
Medical Sciences, New Delhi, INDIA. gupta_v20032000@yahoo.com. (2)Dr Rajendra
Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, All India Institute of Medical Sciences,
New Delhi, INDIA. (3)Department of Anthropology, University of Delhi, INDIA.
(4)Department of Anatomy, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi,
INDIA. (5)Department of Public Health Sciences, Stritch School of Medicine Loyola
University Chicago, Maywood, IL, USA. (6)Department of Pediatric Ophthalmology,
Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, USA.

Juvenile onset open angle glaucoma affects patients before 40years of age, who
present with high intraocular pressure and deep steep cupping of the optic nerve 
head. While it was considered to be inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion,
recent studies have shown an autosomal recessive pattern as well as sporadic
occurrence of the disease in several families. In this review, we analyze the
genetic basis of the disease along with common mutations and their association
with JOAG. We also analyzed the inheritance patterns in a large group of
unrelated JOAG patients (n = 336) from Northern India wherein the prevalence of
familial occurrence was assessed and segregation analysis performed, to determine
the mode of inheritance.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/cge.12906 
PMID: 27779752  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


11. Ophthalmology. 2016 Nov;123(11):e65-e66. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.03.042.

Re: Li et al.: Comparative effectiveness of first-line medications for primary
open-angle glaucoma: a systematic review and network meta-analysis (Ophthalmology
2016;123:129-40).

Rodrigues IA(1), Lim KS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, St Thomas' Hospital, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, St Thomas' Hospital, London, United Kingdom.
Electronic address: Sheng.Lim@gstt.nhs.uk.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.03.042 
PMID: 27772654  [PubMed - in process]


12. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov;60(6):439-445. Epub 2016 Aug 8.

Changes of visual-field global indices after cataract surgery in primary
open-angle glaucoma patients.

Seol BR(1), Jeoung JW(1), Park KH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul
National University College of Medicine, 101 Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul,
110-744, Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University
Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 101 Daehak-ro,
Jongno-gu, Seoul, 110-744, Korea. kihopark@snu.ac.kr.

PURPOSE: To determine changes of visual-field (VF) global indices after cataract 
surgery and the factors associated with the effect of cataracts on those indices 
in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of 60 POAG patients who had undergone
phacoemulsification and intraocular lens insertion was conducted. All of the
patients were evaluated with standard automated perimetry (SAP; 30-2 Swedish
interactive threshold algorithm; Carl Zeiss Meditec Inc.) before and after
surgery. VF global indices before surgery were compared with those after surgery.
The best-corrected visual acuity, intraocular pressure (IOP), number of glaucoma 
medications before surgery, mean total deviation (TD) values, mean pattern
deviation (PD) value, and mean TD-PD value were also compared with the
corresponding postoperative values. Additionally, postoperative peak IOP and mean
IOP were evaluated. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were
performed to identify the factors associated with the effect of cataract on
global indices.
RESULTS: Mean deviation (MD) after cataract surgery was significantly improved
compared with the preoperative MD. Pattern standard deviation (PSD) and
visual-field index (VFI) after surgery were similar to those before surgery.
Also, mean TD and mean TD-PD were significantly improved after surgery. The
posterior subcapsular cataract (PSC) type showed greater MD changes than did the 
non-PSC type in both the univariate and multivariate logistic regression
analyses. In the univariate logistic regression analysis, the preoperative TD-PD 
value and type of cataract were associated with MD change. However, in the
multivariate logistic regression analysis, type of cataract was the only
associated factor. None of the other factors was associated with MD change.
CONCLUSIONS: MD was significantly affected by cataracts, whereas PSD and VFI were
not. Most notably, the PSC type showed better MD improvement compared with the
non-PSC type after cataract surgery. Clinicians therefore should carefully
analyze VF examination results for POAG patients with the PSC type.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-016-0467-8 
PMID: 27503400  [PubMed - in process]


13. J Glaucoma. 2017 Jan;26(1):41-45. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000564.

Outcomes of Gonioscopy-assisted Transluminal Trabeculotomy (GATT) in Eyes With
Prior Incisional Glaucoma Surgery.

Grover DS(1), Godfrey DG, Smith O, Shi W, Feuer WJ, Fellman RL.

Author information: 
(1)*Glaucoma Associates of Texas, Dallas, TX †Bascom Palmer Eye Institute,
University of Miami, Miami, FL.

PURPOSE: To report on outcomes of gonioscopy-assisted transluminal trabeculotomy 
(GATT) in eyes with prior incisional glaucoma surgery.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective review was performed for all patients who
underwent a GATT procedure with a history of prior incisional glaucoma surgery.
RESULTS: Thirty-five eyes of 35 patients were treated. The mean age was 67.7
years. Nineteen eyes had a prior trabeculectomy, 13 eyes had a prior glaucoma
drainage device, 4 eyes had a prior trabectome, and 5 eyes had prior
endocyclophotocoagulation. Mean follow-up time was 22.7 months. For all eyes, the
mean preoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) (SD) was 25.7 (6.5) mm Hg on 3.2
(1.0) glaucoma medications and at 24 months, the mean IOP (SD) was 15.4 (4.9) mm 
Hg on 2.0 (1.4) glaucoma medications (P<0.001). The prior trabeculectomy group
had a preoperative IOP (SD) of 24.6 (6.4) mm Hg on 3.2 (1.0) medications and at
month 24, the mean IOP (SD) was 16.7 (5.6) mm Hg on 2.1 (1.4) glaucoma
medications. In the prior glaucoma drainage device group, the mean preoperative
IOP (SD) was 27.0 (7.1) mm Hg on 3.4 (1.1) glaucoma medications and at 24 months,
the mean IOP (SD) was 12.9 (2.6) mm Hg on 2.1 (1.2) glaucoma medications. At 24
months, the cumulative proportion of failure was 0.4 and the cumulative
proportion of reoperation was 0.29.
CONCLUSIONS: GATT appears to be safe and successful in treating 60% to 70% of
open-angle patients with prior incisional glaucoma surgery. When considering all 
eyes, there was a significant decrease in IOP and required glaucoma medications
at 24 months. This surgery should be considered in certain patients with open
angles who have failed a primary traditional glaucoma surgery.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000564 
PMID: 27753757  [PubMed - in process]


14. Case Rep Ophthalmol Med. 2016;2016:2124581. Epub 2016 Sep 25.

Combined Scleral Flap with Donor Scleral Patch Graft for Anterior Tube Placement 
in Glaucoma Drainage Device Surgery.

Yu JH(1), Nguyen C(1), Gallemore E(2), Gallemore RP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research, Retina Macula Institute, Torrance, CA, USA; University of
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. (2)Clinical Research, Retina
Macula Institute, Torrance, CA, USA.

Purpose. To report a new technique for anterior placement of tubes for glaucoma
drainage devices to reduce the risk of tube erosions. Methods. Retrospective
review of select cases of Ahmed Valve surgery combined with the novel method of a
limbal-based scleral flap covered by a scleral patch graft to cover the tube at
the entrance through the limbus. Intraoperative and postoperative illustrations
are shown to highlight the method of tube placement. Results. In this
retrospective case series, 3 patients are presented illustrating the technique.
Two had neovascular glaucoma and one had primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). On
average, intraocular pressure was reduced from 39 ± 14 mmHg to 15 ± 2 mmHg and
the number of glaucoma medications was reduced from 4 ± 1 to 0. Preoperative and 
most recent visual acuities were hand-motion (HM) and HM, 20/60 and 20/50, and
20/70 and 20/30, respectively. Conclusion. The combination of a limbal-based
scleral flap with scleral patch graft to cover the tube with glaucoma drainage
devices may be an effective means to reduce erosion and protect against
endophthalmitis.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/2124581 
PMCID: PMC5055948
PMID: 27747118  [PubMed]


15. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Oct 14. [Epub ahead of print]

Modifiable factors in the management of glaucoma: a systematic review of current 
evidence.

Hecht I(1,)(2), Achiron A(3,)(4), Man V(5), Burgansky-Eliash Z(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Edith Wolfson Medical Center, 62 Halochamim
St., Holon, Israel, 58100. idanhe@gmail.com. (2)Sackler School of Medicine,
Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. idanhe@gmail.com. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, The Edith Wolfson Medical Center, 62 Halochamim St., Holon,
Israel, 58100. (4)Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv,
Israel. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Soroka University Medical Center,
Ben-Gurion University, Beer-Sheva, Israel.

PURPOSE: Primary open angle glaucoma is a chronic optic neuropathy affecting
millions of people worldwide and represents a major public health issue.
Environmental factors, behaviors, and diet are intimately related to patient
health and may play a role in the pathogenesis and progression of glaucoma. This 
study aims to review the literature, focusing on the last three years, regarding 
modifiable lifestyle interventions in the management of primary open angle
glaucoma.
METHODS: Electronic databases were searched for studies published between January
2013 and July 2016 on the topic of lifestyle interventions in primary open angle 
glaucoma.
RESULTS: Sleeping with the head elevated and avoiding the worst eye-dependent
side during sleep may slightly lower intraocular pressure and reduce visual field
loss. Some food supplements and moderate aerobic exercise may also reduce
intraocular pressure up to 2.0 and 3.0 mmHg, respectively. Frequency of coffee
intake may be associated with disease progression. Potential negative effects are
associated with weight-lifting and yoga exercises.
CONCLUSIONS: Certain lifestyle habits could influence glaucoma progression, yet
no specific interventions are currently supported by robust evidence. Awareness
of the possible influences of certain habits should help guide clinical advice
and is important to help patients avoid adverse outcomes and take an active role 
in the management of their disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-016-3518-4 
PMID: 27743157  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


16. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Jul 1;57(9):OCT611-OCT620. doi:
10.1167/iovs.15-18945.

Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography Analysis of Perfused Peripapillary
Capillaries in Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma and Normal-Tension Glaucoma.

Scripsema NK(1), Garcia PM(1), Bavier RD(2), Chui TY(1), Krawitz BD(1), Mo S(1), 
Agemy SA(3), Xu L(1), Lin YB(1), Panarelli JF(1), Sidoti PA(1), Tsai JC(1), Rosen
RB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai
and Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai
and Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States
2Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Newark, New Jersey, United States.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai
and Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States
3Department of Ophthalmology, SUNY Downstate Medical Center and SUNY Downstate
College of Medicine, Brooklyn, New York, United States.

Purpose: To compare perfused peripapillary capillary density in primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), and normal patients
using optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A).
Methods: A retrospective review of POAG, NTG, and normal patients imaged with
OCT-A was performed. En face OCT angiograms identifying peripapillary vessels
were obtained using a spectral-domain OCT system (Avanti RTVue-XR). A custom
image analysis approach identified perfused peripapillary capillaries, quantified
perfused capillary density (PCD), and generated color-coded PCD maps for 3.5- and
4.5-mm-diameter scans. We compared PCD values, PCD maps, standard automated
perimetry (Humphrey visual field [HVF]) parameters, and OCT retinal nerve fiber
layer (RNFL) thickness analyses across all groups.
Results: Forty POAG, 26 NTG, and 26 normal patients were included. Annular PCD in
POAG (34.24 ± 6.76%) and NTG (37.75 ± 3.52%) patients was significantly decreased
compared to normal patients (42.99 ± 1.81%) in 4.5-mm scans (P < 0.01 and P <
0.01, respectively). Similar trends and statistical significances were seen in
3.5-mm scans. Linear regression analysis resulted in moderate correlations
between annular PCD values and other glaucomatous parameters. Pearson
coefficients comparing annular PCD from 4.5-mm scans in POAG and NTG groups to
HVF mean deviation, HVF pattern standard deviation, and average RNFL thickness
all showed statistical significance (P < 0.05). Color maps showed that POAG and
NTG patients had a reduction of perfused capillaries that progressed in size when
comparing early, moderate, and severe glaucoma groups.
Conclusions: Optical coherence tomography angiography can uniquely identify
changes in peripapillary PCD in glaucoma patients. Optical coherence tomography
angiography may offer insights into the pathophysiology of glaucomatous damage
and risk factors for disease progression.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-18945 
PMID: 27742922  [PubMed - in process]


17. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2016 Sep 21. pii: S1350-9462(16)30071-4. doi:
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.09.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Caveolins and caveolae in ocular physiology and pathophysiology.

Gu X(1), Reagan AM(1), McClellan ME(2), Elliott MH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology/Dean McGee Eye Institute, University of Oklahoma
Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA; Oklahoma Center for
Neuroscience, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK
73104, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology/Dean McGee Eye Institute, University
of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA. (3)Department
of Ophthalmology/Dean McGee Eye Institute, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences
Center, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA; Oklahoma Center for Neuroscience,
University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA;
Department of Physiology, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma
City, OK 73104, USA. Electronic address: michael-elliott@ouhsc.edu.

Caveolae are specialized, invaginated plasma membrane domains that are defined
morphologically and by the expression of signature proteins called, caveolins.
Caveolae and caveolins are abundant in a variety of cell types including vascular
endothelium, glia, and fibroblasts where they play critical roles in
transcellular transport, endocytosis, mechanotransduction, cell proliferation,
membrane lipid homeostasis, and signal transduction. Given these critical
cellular functions, it is surprising that ablation of the caveolae organelle does
not result in lethality suggesting instead that caveolae and caveolins play
modulatory roles in cellular homeostasis. Caveolar components are also expressed 
in ocular cell types including retinal vascular cells, Müller glia, retinal
pigment epithelium (RPE), conventional aqueous humor outflow cells, the corneal
epithelium and endothelium, and the lens epithelium. In the eye, studies of
caveolae and other membrane microdomains (i.e., "lipid rafts") have lagged behind
what is a substantial body of literature outside vision science. However,
interest in caveolae and their molecular components has increased with
accumulating evidence of important roles in vision-related functions such as
blood-retinal barrier homeostasis, ocular inflammatory signaling, pathogen entry 
at the ocular surface, and aqueous humor drainage. The recent association of
CAV1/2 gene loci with primary open angle glaucoma and intraocular pressure has
further enhanced the need to better understand caveolar functions in the context 
of ocular physiology and disease. Herein, we provide the first comprehensive
review of literature on caveolae, caveolins, and other membrane domains in the
context of visual system function. This review highlights the importance of
caveolae domains and their components in ocular physiology and pathophysiology
and emphasizes the need to better understand these important modulators of
cellular function.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.09.005 
PMID: 27664379  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


18. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Oct;151:150-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.08.014. Epub 2016 Aug
25.

Life under pressure: The role of ocular cribriform cells in preventing glaucoma.

Paula JS(1), O'Brien C(2), Stamer WD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ribeirão Preto Medical School, University of São 
Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil; Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University
School of Medicine, Durham, NC, USA. (2)Ophthalmology, UCD School of Medicine,
Mater Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University 
School of Medicine, Durham, NC, USA. Electronic address: dan.stamer@duke.edu.

Primary open-angle glaucoma is a multifactorial blinding disease often impacting 
the two pressure-sensitive regions of the eye: the conventional outflow pathway
and the optic nerve head (ONH). The connective tissues that span these two
openings in the globe are the trabecular meshwork of the conventional outflow
pathway and the lamina cribrosa of the ONH. Resident cribiform cells of these two
regions are responsible for actively remodeling and maintaining their connective 
tissues. In glaucoma, aberrant maintenance of the juxtacanalicular tissues (JCT) 
of the conventional outflow pathway results in ocular hypertension and
pathological remodeling of the lamina cribrosa results in ONH cupping, damaging
retinal ganglion cell axons. Interestingly, cells cultured from the lamina
cribrosa and the JCT of the trabecular meshwork have similarities regarding gene 
expression, protein production, plus cellular responses to growth factors and
mechanical stimuli. This review compares and contrasts the current knowledge of
these two cell types, whose health is critical for protecting the eye from
glaucomatous changes. In response to pressure gradients across their respective
cribiform tissues, the goal is to better understand and differentiate healthy
from pathological behavior of these two cell types.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.08.014 
PMCID: PMC5045826 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27567558  [PubMed - in process]


19. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2016 May-Aug;10(2):60-7. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1203. Epub 2016 Aug 5.

Comparison of Outcomes of Resident-performed Ahmed Valve Implantation vs
Trabeculectomy.

Sharpe RA(1), Kammerdiener LL(2), Wannamaker KW(1), Fan J(3), Sharpe ED(4).

Author information: 
(1)Resident, Department of Ophthalmology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, South Carolina, USA. (2)Fellow, Department of Ophthalmology, Medical 
University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina, USA. (3)Research
Instructor, Department of Ophthalmology, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, South Carolina, USA. (4)Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, Ralph
H. Johnson Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Charleston, South Carolina, USA.

AIMS: To compare outcomes of resident-performed Ahmed valve surgery vs
trabeculectomy in a Veteran Affairs medical facility.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective cohort of 103 eyes in 91 patients
receiving Ahmed valve (valve) or trabeculectomy (trab) performed at a Veterans
Administration Medical Center by residents in their third year of training. The
primary outcomes included intraocular pressure (IOP), treatment failure, and
complications over 1 year.
RESULTS: Of 103 eyes, 44 received valve and 59 received trab. Primary open-angle 
glaucoma was primary diagnosis more often in trab, while neovascular glaucoma
predominated in the valve group (p < 0.001). Preoperative mean IOP was 35.1 ±
11.8 and 24.5 ± 7.1 mm Hg for valve and trabeculectomy respectively (p < 0.001), 
but at 1 year the IOP difference between groups was not statistically significant
(p = 0.064). Overall, 11 (25.0%) and 11 (18.6%) eyes met any criteria for failure
for valve and trab respectively. At 1 year, 22.5% of valves had IOP > 21 mm Hg vs
only 4.3% of trab (p = 0.02). Complications were infrequent. There were no
intraoperative complications for valve, whereas five for trab. Most common
immediate complication for valve was hyphema. Both groups had low rates of
choroidal effusions and reoperation.
CONCLUSION: Ahmed valve implantation and trabeculectomy produce significant
reductions in IOP when performed by residents-in-training. Valves tend to be used
more frequently in patients with secondary glaucoma. Although complication
profiles differ between procedures, both are safe and well tolerated when
performed by resident physicians.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This study provides support for evidence-based patient
counseling that supervised, resident-performed Ahmed valve implantation and
trabeculectomy are indeed safe and effective. How to cite this article: Sharpe
RA, Kammerdiener LL, Wannamaker KW, Fan J, Sharpe ED. Comparison of Outcomes of
Resident-performed Ahmed Valve Implantation vs Trabeculectomy. J Curr Glaucoma
Pract 2016;10(2):60-67.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1203 
PMCID: PMC4981660
PMID: 27536049  [PubMed]


20. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2016 May-Aug;10(2):56-9. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1202. Epub 2016 Aug 5.

A New Ultrasound Biomicroscopic Sign seen after Deep Sclerectomy (Dolphin Head
Sign).

Abdelrahman AM(1), Cheweikh HM(1), El-Fayoumi DM(2), Allam RS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, Kasr Al-Ainy School of Medicine, Cairo
University, Giza, Egypt. (2)Lecturer, Department of Ophthalmology, Kasr Al-Ainy
School of Medicine, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt.

PURPOSE: To describe a new ultrasound biomicroscopic (UBM) sign seen in patients 
who underwent deep sclerectomy (DS) as a surgical procedure for the management of
uncontrolled primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The presence of this sign in
ultrasound biomicroscopy is suggested to be an indicator of successful surgery.
We would like to name this sign as the "dolphin head sign."
DESIGN: Prospective interventional study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-eight eyes of 17 patients with POAG underwent DS
with intraoperative mitomycin C (MMC) 0.3% applied for 2 minutes under the
superficial scleral flap. Patients were followed up for a minimum of 6 months.
Ultrasound biomicroscopy was done at the third postoperative month to evaluate
the surgical area in both successful and failed cases.
RESULTS: The study included 28 eyes of 17 patients. The mean age of the study
group was 42.90 ± 14.37 years (20-64 years). The study included 10 females and 7 
males. The mean preoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) was 24.57 ± 6.37 mm Hg
(20-38 mm Hg). The mean best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was 0.57 ± 0.3
(0.05-1.00). Complete success has been achieved in 21 eyes (75%) during the
follow-up period, with a mean IOP of 12.00 ± 3.86 mm Hg (6-20 mm Hg). The dolphin
head sign was demonstrated only in successful cases, whereas the unsuccessful
cases failed to show the typical sign.
CONCLUSION: The presence of a "dolphin head" configuration in UBM images could be
taken as an indicator of successful DS. How to cite this article: Abdelrahman AM,
El Cheweikh HM, El-Fayoumi DMS, Allam RSHM. A New Ultrasound Biomicroscopic Sign 
seen after Deep Sclerectomy (Dolphin Head Sign). J Curr Glaucoma Pract
2016;10(2):56-59.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1202 
PMCID: PMC4981659
PMID: 27536048  [PubMed]


21. Public Health. 2016 Nov;140:84-90. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2016.04.016. Epub 2016 Aug
12.

The effect of smoking on the risk of primary open-angle glaucoma: an updated
meta-analysis of six observational studies.

Zhou Y(1), Zhu W(2), Wang C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang
University, Jiangxi, 330006, China. Electronic address: 1025317142@qq.com.
(2)Cardiology Department, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, 
Jiangxi, 330006, China. Electronic address: 602701970@qq.com. (3)Ophthalmology
Department, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Jiangxi,
330006, China. Electronic address: ccyywang@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: Several studies have investigated the role of smoking on primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), but the results still remain controversial. We
therefore aimed to estimate the effect of smoking on developing POAG.
STUDY DESIGN: A meta-analysis was conducted from 1 January 1966 to 1 December
2015.
METHODS: We systematically retrieved the relevant studies reporting the
association between smoking and POAG using the Cochrane Library, PubMed, and
Embase databases. Data were extracted from applicable articles, and effect values
were pooled by RevMan 5.3 software.
RESULTS: Six observational studies (three cohort and three case-control studies) 
fulfilled the inclusion criteria. We found no evidence of publication bias or
heterogeneity among all the included studies. A fixed-effects model was performed
to pool the relative risks [RRs] with 95% confidence intervals [CIs]. Both
current smokers (pooled adjusted RR = 0.97, 95% CI 0.81-1.16, P = 0.74,
I(2) = 38%) and former smokers (RR = 0.97, 95% CI 0.83-1.13, P = 0.66,
I(2) = 46%) had no statistical significant association with POAG compared with
never smokers. The sensitivity analysis indicated the pooled results were not
significantly changed.
CONCLUSIONS: Our meta-analysis results suggest that there may be not a causal
association between smoking and development of POAG.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2016.04.016 
PMID: 27527843  [PubMed - in process]


22. J Ophthalmol. 2016;2016:4727423. doi: 10.1155/2016/4727423. Epub 2016 Jul 25.

The Application of a Contact Lens Sensor in Detecting 24-Hour Intraocular
Pressure-Related Patterns.

Xu SC(1), Gauthier AC(2), Liu J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA; Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, MN 55905, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.

Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of blindness worldwide. Recent studies
suggest that intraocular pressure (IOP) fluctuations, peaks, and rhythm are
important factors in disease advancement. Yet, current glaucoma management
remains hinged on single IOP measurements during clinic hours. To overcome this
limitation, 24-hour IOP monitoring devices have been employed and include
self-tonometry, permanent IOP, and temporary IOP monitoring. This review
discusses each IOP measuring strategy and focuses on the recently FDA-approved
contact lens sensor (CLS). The CLS records IOP-related ocular patterns for 24
hours continuously. Using the CLS, IOP-related parameters have been found to be
associated with the rate of visual field progression in primary open-angle
glaucoma, disease progression in primary angle-closure glaucoma, and various
clinical variables in ocular hypertension. The CLS has been used to quantify
blink rate and limbal strain and measure the circadian rhythm in a variety of
disease states including normal-tension glaucoma and thyroid eye disease. The
effects of various IOP-lowering interventions were also characterized using the
CLS. CLS provides a unique, safe, and well-tolerated way to study IOP-related
patterns in a wide range of disease states. IOP-related patterns may help
identify patients most at risk for disease progression and assist with the
development of tailored treatments.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/4727423 
PMCID: PMC4976175
PMID: 27525110  [PubMed]


23. Am J Public Health. 2016 Sep;106(9):1684-9. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2016.303317. Epub
2016 Jul 26.

Contribution of the Nurses' Health Study to the Epidemiology of Cataract,
Age-Related Macular Degeneration, and Glaucoma.

Kang JH(1), Wu J(1), Cho E(1), Ogata S(1), Jacques P(1), Taylor A(1), Chiu CJ(1),
Wiggs JL(1), Seddon JM(1), Hankinson SE(1), Schaumberg DA(1), Pasquale LR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jae H. Kang is with the Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department of
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
Juan Wu is with the Department of Nutrition, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston. Eunyoung Cho is with the Department of Dermatology, Warren Alpert
Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI. Soshiro Ogata is with the
Department of Health Promotion Science, Osaka University Graduate School of
Medicine, Suita, Osaka, Japan. Paul Jacques, Allen Taylor, and Chung-Jung Chiu
are with the Laboratory for Nutrition and Vision Research, Jean Mayer USDA Human 
Nutrition Center on Aging, Tufts University, Boston. Janey L. Wiggs and Louis R. 
Pasquale are with the Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear
Infirmary and Harvard Medical School. Johanna M. Seddon is with the Ophthalmic
Epidemiology and Genetics Service, New England Eye Center, Tufts Medical Center, 
Tufts University School of Medicine. Susan E. Hankinson is with the Department of
Biostatistics and Epidemiology, School of Public Health and Health Sciences,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Debra A. Schaumberg is with the Department 
of Epidemiology, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health.

OBJECTIVES: To review the contribution of the Nurses' Health Study (NHS) to
understanding the genetic and lifestyle factors that influence the risk of
cataract, age-related macular degeneration, and glaucoma.
METHODS: We performed a narrative review of the publications of the NHS between
1976 and 2016.
RESULTS: The NHS has helped to elucidate the roles of genetics, lifestyle factors
(e.g., cigarette smoking associated with cataract extraction and age-related
macular degeneration), medical conditions (e.g., diabetes associated with
cataract extraction and glaucoma), and dietary factors (e.g., greater carotenoid 
intake and lower glycemic diet associated with lower risk of age-related macular 
degeneration) in the etiology of degree and progression of lens opacities,
cataract extraction, age-related macular degeneration, primary open-angle
glaucoma, and exfoliation glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings from the NHS, combined with those of other studies,
have provided compelling evidence to support public health recommendations for
helping to prevent age-related eye diseases: abstinence from cigarette smoking,
maintenance of healthy weight and diabetes prevention, and a healthy diet rich in
fruits and vegetables.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2016.303317 
PMCID: PMC4981799
PMID: 27459452  [PubMed - in process]


24. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Jul 21. pii: S0014-4835(16)30193-2. doi:
10.1016/j.exer.2016.07.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Smad-independent TGF-β2 signaling pathways in human trabecular meshwork cells.

Pervan CL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Service (151), Department of Veterans Affairs, Edward Hines Jr. VA
Hospital, Hines, IL, 60141, USA; Department of Ophthalmology, Loyola University
Chicago, Maywood, IL, USA. Electronic address: cynthia.pervan@va.gov.

Aberrant expression and signaling of Transforming Growth Factor (TGF)-β is
strongly associated with development of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) and
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). In cells of the trabecular meshwork, a key
component of the conventional outflow pathway, TGF-β is well-known to promote
expression of multiple ocular hypertensive mediators, including genes associated 
with fibrosis as well as cellular contractility. These effects are mediated by
induction of canonical (Smad) as well as non-canonical (MAPK, Rho GTPase)
signaling cascades. In the present review, we will highlight the non-canonical,
Smad-independent signaling pathways activated by TGF-β2 in human TM cells, as
well as the genes known to be induced by non-canonical TGF-β2 signaling.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.07.012 
PMID: 27453344  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


25. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Jul 19. pii: S0014-4835(16)30192-0. doi:
10.1016/j.exer.2016.07.011. [Epub ahead of print]

Trabecular meshwork stiffness in glaucoma.

Wang K(1), Read AT(1), Sulchek T(2), Ethier CR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology/Emory
University, Atlanta, GA, USA. (2)George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical
Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA. (3)Department of 
Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology/Emory University,
Atlanta, GA, USA; George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering, Georgia
Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA. Electronic address:
ross.ethier@bme.gatech.edu.

Alterations in stiffness of the trabecular meshwork (TM) may play an important
role in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), the second leading cause of
blindness. Specifically, certain data suggest an association between elevated
intraocular pressure (IOP) and increased TM stiffness; however, the underlying
link between TM stiffness and IOP remains unclear and requires further study. We 
here first review the literature on TM stiffness measurements, encompassing
various species and based on a number of measurement techniques, including direct
approaches such as atomic force microscopy (AFM) and uniaxial tension tests, and 
indirect methods based on a beam deflection model. We also briefly review the
effects of several factors that affect TM stiffness, including lysophospholipids,
rho-kinase inhibitors, cytoskeletal disrupting agents, dexamethasone (DEX),
transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2), nitric oxide (NO) and cellular
senescence. We then describe a method we have developed for determining TM
stiffness measurement in mice using a cryosection/AFM-based approach, and present
preliminary data on TM stiffness in C57BL/6J and CBA/J mouse strains. Finally, we
investigate the relationship between TM stiffness and outflow facility between
these two strains. The method we have developed shows promise for further direct 
measurements of mouse TM stiffness, which may be of value in understanding
mechanistic relations between outflow facility and TM biomechanical properties.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.07.011 
PMID: 27448987  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


26. BMC Health Serv Res. 2016 Jul 19;16:282. doi: 10.1186/s12913-016-1528-x.

Cost of the medical management and prescription pattern for primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) in Ghana-a retrospective cross-sectional study from three
referral facilities.

Ocansey S(1,)(2), Kyei S(3), Diafo A(3), Darfor KN(4), Boadi-Kusi SB(3),
Aglobitse PB(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vision and Hearing Sciences, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge, UK. socansey2@ucc.edu.gh. (2)Department of
Optometry, School of Allied Health Sciences, College of Health and Allied
Sciences, University of Cape Coast, Cape Coast, Ghana. socansey2@ucc.edu.gh.
(3)Department of Optometry, School of Allied Health Sciences, College of Health
and Allied Sciences, University of Cape Coast, Cape Coast, Ghana. (4)Department
of Economics, Faculty of Social Sciences, College of Humanities and Legal
Studies, University of Cape Coast, Cape Coast, Ghana.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness globally, and
treatment involves considerable cost to stakeholders in healthcare. However,
there is infrequent availability of cost information and patterns of management, 
especially in developing countries. This study determined the cost of the medical
management of POAG, adherence, and pattern of medication prescription in Ghana.
METHODS: A retrospective cross-sectional study involving 891 Primary Open Angle
Glaucoma (POAG) cases seen in the year 2012 at three referral facilities.
Demographics, ocular history, resource consumption, medication, test, surgery and
other related cost were extracted from 84 patients who had fully complied with
their treatment to calculate total cost (TC) based on 2012 estimates. Glaucoma
drugs prescribed to patients who had adhered to all their review visits within
the period evident from case folders were recorded and analysed for the
prescription pattern.
RESULTS: Out of 891 POAG cases seen in 2012, 351(39.4 %) attended all the
required review visits, but only 84 (9.4) had fully and continually adhered to
all their treatment regimes. They comprised 41(48.8 %) males and 43(51.2 %)
females with a mean age of 65 ± 14.8. Majority of the respondents were elderly
above 60 year of age (65.5 %). The total estimated cost for the 84 cases in the
year was GH¢ 81,237 ($40,619), comprising GH¢ 72,193 ($36,097) direct medication 
cost and GH¢9,045 ($4,523) direct non-medication cost (surgery and test cost),
and an average of GH¢ 967 ($484) for a mean visit of 5.6 ± 1.1 in the year. A
total of 673 glaucoma medications had been prescribed for 351 patients for the
year, with timolol being the most prescribed (64.19 %) and monotherapy as the
most adopted form of therapy (61.06 %). Age and income showed concurrent increase
with cost (P ≤ 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Cost of managing glaucoma constitutes a substantial financial burden
and influenced the pattern of medication prescription.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-016-1528-x 
PMCID: PMC4950601
PMID: 27430262  [PubMed - in process]


27. BBA Clin. 2016 Apr 19;6:49-68. doi: 10.1016/j.bbacli.2016.04.004. eCollection
2016.

Generation of reactive oxygen species in the anterior eye segment. Synergistic
codrugs of N-acetylcarnosine lubricant eye drops and mitochondria-targeted
antioxidant act as a powerful therapeutic platform for the treatment of cataracts
and primary open-angle glaucoma.

Babizhayev MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Innovative Vision Products, Inc., 3511 Silverside Road, Suite 105, County of
New Castle, DE 19810, USA.

Senile cataract is a clouding of the lens in the aging eye leading to a decrease 
in vision. Symptoms may include faded colors, blurry vision, halos around light, 
trouble with bright lights, and trouble seeing at night. This may result in
trouble driving, reading, or recognizing faces. Cataracts are the cause of half
of blindness and 33% of visual impairment worldwide. Cataracts result from the
deposition of aggregated proteins in the eye lens and lens fiber cells plasma
membrane damage which causes clouding of the lens, light scattering, and
obstruction of vision. ROS induced damage in the lens cell may consist of
oxidation of proteins, DNA damage and/or lipid peroxidation, all of which have
been implicated in cataractogenesis. The inner eye pressure (also called
intraocular pressure or IOP) rises because the correct amount of fluid can't
drain out of the eye. With primary open-angle glaucoma, the entrances to the
drainage canals are clear and should be working correctly. The clogging problem
occurs further inside the drainage canals, similar to a clogged pipe below the
drain in a sink. The excessive oxidative damage is a major factor of the ocular
diseases because the mitochondrial respiratory chain in mitochondria of the vital
cells is a significant source of the damaging reactive oxygen species superoxide 
and hydrogen peroxide. However, despite the clinical importance of mitochondrial 
oxidative damage, antioxidants have been of limited therapeutic success. This may
be because the antioxidants are not selectively taken up by mitochondria, but
instead are dispersed throughout the body, ocular tissues and fluids' moieties.
This work is an attempt to integrate how mitochondrial reactive oxygen species
(ROS) are altered in the aging eye, along with those protective and repair
therapeutic systems believed to regulate ROS levels in ocular tissues and how
damage to these systems contributes to age-onset eye disease and cataract
formation. Mitochondria-targeted antioxidants might be used to effectively
prevent ROS-induced oxidation of lipids and proteins in the inner mitochondrial
membrane in vivo. The authors developed and patented the new ophthalmic
compositions including N-acetylcarnosine acting as a prodrug of naturally
targeted to mitochondria l-carnosine endowed with pluripotent antioxidant
activities, combined with mitochondria-targeted rechargeable antioxidant (either 
MitoVit E, Mito Q or SkQs) as a potent medicine to treat ocular diseases. Such
specificity is explained by the fact that developed compositions might be used to
effectively prevent ROS-induced oxidation of lipids and proteins in the inner
mitochondrial membrane in vivo and outside mitochondria in the cellular and
tissue structures of the lens and eye compartments. Mitochondrial targeting of
compounds with universal types of antioxidant activity represents a promising
approach for treating a number of ROS-related ocular diseases of the aging eye
and can be implicated in the management of cataracts and primary open-angle
glaucoma.

Publisher: •This work considers mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS)
effects in the aging eye•The excessive oxidative damage is a major factor of the 
eye diseases (cataract, primary open-angle glaucoma)•The conventional
antioxidants are not selectively taken up by mitochondria of the cells•The author
developed the new ophthalmic compositions of mitochondria-targeted
antioxidants•The formulation comprises N-acetylcarnosine combined with
mitochondria-targeted rechargeable antioxidant•Mitochondrial targeting of
antioxidants represents a promising therapeutic approach•A number of ROS-related 
ocular diseases of the aging eye can be treated.
DOI: 10.1016/j.bbacli.2016.04.004 
PMCID: PMC4925929
PMID: 27413694  [PubMed]


28. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2016 Jun 11;52(6):476-80. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0412-4081.2016.06.020.

[Role of microRNA in primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen JL(1), Su Y, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The first affiliated hospital of Harbin Medical
University, Harbin 150001, China.

The pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is still unclear. The
trabecular meshwork (TM) plays an important role for regulation of aqueous humor 
outflow. The alteration of morphology, structure of TM cells and expression of
extracellular matrix (ECM) components contribute to the abnormal increase of
outflow resistance leading to elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). Recently, it
has been confirmed that a variety of microRNA (miRNA) such as miRNA-29, 24, 200c 
and so on were expressed in TM tissue and different miRNA can affect the TM
function and the synthesis of ECM in different ways. In this paper, we will
review the role of miRNA in POAG pathogenesis, in order to provide the basis for 
probing into pathogenesis of glaucoma. (Chin J Ophthalmol, 2016, 52: 476-480).


PMID: 27373576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2016 Jun 11;52(6):471-5. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0412-4081.2016.06.019.

[Novel therapeutic targets for reduction of intraocular pressure in primary open 
angle glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Mao WM(1), Liu Y, Wordinger YH, Clark AF, Pang IH.

Author information: 
(1)North Texas Eye Research Institute, University of North Texas Health Science
Center, Fort Worth TX 76107, USA.

Glaucoma is a major cause of blindness in China and the world. Currently, all
therapeutic means in treating open-angle glaucoma are limited to control the
progression of optic neuropathy by lowering intraocular pressure (IOP).
Clinically available medicines lower IOP by either enhancing the uveoscleral
pathway or inhibiting aqueous humor production. Since the primary cause of IOP
elevation in POAG is elevated outflow resistance in the trabecular outflow
pathway, current medicines are not able to correct the underlying pathogenesis
and pathophysiology of the disease. In this review article, we discuss a series
of new therapeutic targets and therapeutic approaches that are designed to
directly modify the pathological changes related to the reduction in trabecular
outflow in glaucoma patients. Some of these targets and approaches may produce a 
significant breakthrough in the treatment of this devastating disease. (Chin J
Ophthalmol, 2016, 52: 471-475).


PMID: 27373575  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Jun 11. pii: S0014-4835(16)30142-7. doi:
10.1016/j.exer.2016.06.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Working your SOCS off: The role of ASB10 and protein degradation pathways in
glaucoma.

Keller KE(1), Wirtz MK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Casey Eye Institute, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, OR 97239, USA. Electronic address: gregorka@ohsu.edu.
(2)Casey Eye Institute, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, OR 97239, USA.

Evidence is accumulating to suggest that mutations in the Ankyrin and SOCS
Box-containing protein-10 (ASB10) gene are associated with glaucoma. Since its
identification in a large Oregon family with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), 
ASB10 variants have been associated with disease in US, German and Pakistani
cohorts. ASB10 is a member of the ASB family of proteins, which have a common
structure including a unique N-terminus, a variable number of central ankyrin
(ANK) repeat domains and a suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) box at the
C-terminus. Mutations in ASB10 are distributed throughout the entire length of
the gene including the two alternatively spliced variants of exon 1. A homozygous
mutation in a Pakistani individual with POAG, which lies in the center of the
SOCS box, is associated with a particularly severe form of the disease. Like
other SOCS box-containing proteins, ASB10 functions in ubiquitin-mediated
degradation pathways. The ANK repeats bind to proteins destined for degradation. 
The SOCS box recruits ubiquitin ligase proteins to form a complex to transfer
ubiquitin to a substrate bound to the ANK repeats. The ubiquitin-tagged protein
then enters either the proteasomal degradation pathway or the
autophagic-lysosomal pathway. The choice of pathway appears to be dependent on
which lysine residues are used to build polyubiquitin chains. However, these
reciprocal pathways work in tandem to degrade proteins because inhibition of one 
pathway increases degradation via the other pathway. In this publication, we will
review the literature that supports identification of ASB10 as a
glaucoma-associated gene and the current knowledge of the function of the ASB10
protein. In addition, we present new data that indicates ASB10 expression is
up-regulated by the inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α and
interleukin-1α. Finally, we will describe the emerging role of other SOCS
box-containing proteins in protein degradation pathways in ocular cells.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.06.003 
PMCID: PMC5149453 [Available on 2017-12-11]
PMID: 27296073  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


31. R I Med J (2013). 2016 Jun 1;99(6):22-5.

Selective Laser Trabeculoplasty as Primary Treatment for Open-Angle Glaucoma.

Kadasi LM(1), Wagdi S(2), Miller KV(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Alpert Medical School of Brown University; Rhode 
Island Hospital, Providence, RI. (2)Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery
(Ophthalmology), Alpert Medical School of Brown University; Rhode Island
Hospital, Providence, RI.

Open-angle glaucoma is a silent, chronic disorder which results in progressive
and permanent vision loss. Designing the optimal treatment regimen can be
particularly challenging in the management of high-risk patients with frequent
loss to follow-up or a longstanding history of medication noncompliance. In this 
article we aim to review fundamental techniques in glaucoma diagnosis and
treatment with emphasis on the strengths and weaknesses of selective laser
trabeculoplasty, a technique in modern therapy which may mold the future of
primary treatment in open angle glaucoma management. [Full article available at
http://rimed.org/rimedicaljournal-2016-06.asp, free with no login].


PMID: 27247968  [PubMed - in process]


32. Clin Drug Investig. 2016 Jun;36(6):499-508. doi: 10.1007/s40261-016-0413-z.

Tafluprost Ophthalmic Solution 0.0015 %: A Review in Glaucoma and Ocular
Hypertension.

Keating GM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, 0754, Auckland, New Zealand.
demail@springer.com.

Tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015 % preserved with benzalkonium chloride
(BAK) 0.001 % is available in several Asian countries, including Japan. In
pivotal trials, BAK-preserved tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015 % lowered
intraocular pressure (IOP) more effectively than placebo in Asian patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and was at least as effective as latanoprost ophthalmic
solution 0.005 % in Asian patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular
hypertension. In other prospective studies in Asian patients with glaucoma or
ocular hypertension, tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015 % was at least as
effective as latanoprost ophthalmic solution 0.005 % or travoprost ophthalmic
solution 0.004 % in terms of IOP lowering, and was considered easier to use
and/or store. The efficacy of tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015 % was
maintained in the longer term. Tafluprost ophthalmic solution 0.0015 % was
generally well tolerated. In conclusion, BAK-preserved tafluprost ophthalmic
solution 0.0015 % remains a useful option for the treatment of Asian patients
with glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-016-0413-z 
PMID: 27225879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Adv Ther. 2016 Jun;33(6):959-81. doi: 10.1007/s12325-016-0333-6. Epub 2016 Apr
30.

Quality of Life in Glaucoma: A Review of the Literature.

Quaranta L(1), Riva I(2), Gerardi C(3), Oddone F(4), Floriano I(3), Konstas
AG(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, Radiological Sciences and
Public Health, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy. luciano.quaranta@unibs.it. 
(2)Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, Radiological Sciences and
Public Health, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy. (3)IRCCS-Istituto di
Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Milan, Italy. (4)IRCCS-Fondazione G.B.
Bietti, Rome, Italy. (5)1st and 3rd University Departments of Ophthalmology,
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.

Erratum in
    Adv Ther. 2016 Jun;33(6):982.
    Adv Ther. 2016 Jun;33(6):982.

The ultimate goal of glaucoma management is the preservation of patients' visual 
function and quality of life (QoL). The disease itself as well as the medical or 
surgical treatment can have an enormous impact on a patient's QoL. Even the mere 
diagnosis of a chronic, irreversible, potentially blinding disorder can adversely
affect the patient's sense of well-being and QoL by eliciting significant
anxiety. Patients with primary open-angle glaucoma rarely present with visual
symptoms, at least early in the course of the disease. A better understanding of 
patient-reported QoL can improve patient-physician interaction and enhance
treatment adherence by customizing treatment options based on individual patient 
profile, thus optimizing long-term prognosis. These aspects are summarized and
critically appraised in this article.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-016-0333-6 
PMCID: PMC4920851
PMID: 27138604  [PubMed - in process]


34. Int Ophthalmol. 2016 May 2. [Epub ahead of print]

The association between cigarette smoking and primary open-angle glaucoma: a
systematic review.

Jain V(1), Jain M(2), Abdull MM(3,)(4), Bastawrous A(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences & Medicine, King's College London, London, SE1 1UL,
UK. vageesh.jain@kcl.ac.uk. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Central Middlesex
Hospital, Acton Lane, Park Royal, London, NE10 7NS, UK. (3)International Centre
for Eye Health, Department of Clinical Research, London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine, London, WC1E 7HT, UK. (4)Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University
Teaching Hospital, Bauchi, Nigeria.

Glaucoma is one of the most common causes of irreversible blindness, globally.
Findings from the Blue Mountain Eye Study suggest a moderate positive association
between smoking and increased IOP (a significant risk factor for glaucoma). The
previous two reviews investigating the association between smoking and primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) show inconsistent findings and do not include recent
studies investigating the dose-response effect of smoking. The current study aims
to conduct an up-to-date, comprehensive evaluation of the existing literature.
Identification of relevant existing literature was performed by an online search 
in MEDLINE for studies published from 1st January 1946 to 5th February 2015. The 
MESH headings (keywords) included "open-angle glaucoma" and "cigarette" or
"smoking" or "tobacco". Two independent reviewers assessed the eligibility of
each report based on predefined inclusion criteria. Odds ratios and 95 %
confidence intervals (95 % CIs) were obtained from studies, for the change in
risk of glaucoma due to both past and current smoking. Of the 26 abstracts
reviewed, 17 papers were included in the final analysis. Nine of these were
case-control studies, five cohort studies and three cross-sectional in design.
Six of the case-control studies found a positive association between smoking and 
POAG, unlike the remaining studies. However, two relatively recent, large studies
(including one prospective cohort study) investigating the effect of smoking dose
have found a significant increase in risk of POAG in very heavy smokers. There is
limited evidence for a causal association between tobacco smoking and POAG. The
evidence for a link between current smoking and POAG appears stronger than that
of past smoking, but recent studies suggest that heavy smoking may increase the
risk of POAG. Future studies must further investigate the possible positive
association between heavy smoking and POAG by stratifying participants by pack
years and age.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-016-0245-0 
PMID: 27138591  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


35. Voen Med Zh. 2016 Jan;337(1):36-42.

[Corrrelation between blood pressure levels in patients with glaucoma (Literature
review)].

[Article in Russian]

Ovchinnikov YV, Kuroedov AV, Baranova NA, Ibragimova FM.

The problem of correlation between blood pressure levels and intraocular pressure
is one of the most talked about. Both, Russian and foreign literature, reflects
the heterogeneity of views on the impact of blood pressure changes into the level
of intraocular. pressure. At the same time it underestimated the role of systemic
cardiovascular changes in the deterioration of visual function in case of primary
open-angle glaucoma. Numerous data demonstrate the role of additional factors
than average blood pressure levels in advance of glaucoma. More and more
researchers tend to assess not only intraocular pressure, but also perfusion
pressure as a risk predictor of advance of glaucoma. Correlation between blood
pressure level and intraocular pressure has a particular relevance due to the
significant improvement of the range of cardiovascular drugs that can affect on
intraocular pressure indictors. A number of literature data confirm the need to
research variations in blood pressure levels during the day and types of therapy 
that patients receive.


PMID: 27120953  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Curr Eye Res. 2016 Nov;41(11):1433-1437. Epub 2016 Apr 26.

Efficacy of Bimatoprost Plus Timolol Fixed Combination in Open Angle Glaucoma
Patients Previously Treated with Dorzolamide Plus Timolol Fixed Combination.

Sacchi M(1), Specchia C(2,)(3), Williams SE(4), Villani E(1), Nucci P(1).

Author information: 
(1)a University Eye Clinic, San Giuseppe Hospital , University of Milan , Milan, 
Italy. (2)b Department of Molecular and Translational Medicine , University of
Brescia , Brescia, Italy. (3)c IRCCS MultiMedica , Milan , Italy. (4)d Division
of Ophthalmology, Department of Neurosciences , University of the Witwatersrand ,
Johannesburg , South Africa.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of bimatoprost plus timolol fixed
combination (BTFC) in patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) previously
treated with dorzolamide plus timolol fixed combination (DTFC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective, medical records review study. Medical
records of patients with POAG previously treated with DTFC and then switched to
BTFC for poor intraocular pressure (IOP) control or ocular discomfort were
included in the analysis. One baseline IOP diurnal curve, and one diurnal curve
under each treatment were required to be eligible for this study. The primary
outcome was to compare the mean diurnal IOP between DTFC and BTFC. Secondary
outcomes were to compare the IOP diurnal fluctuation, and the percentage of
patients achieving a target IOP <14, <16, and <18 mmHg between the two
treatments.
RESULTS: Medical records of 96 patients were analyzed (mean age 65.8 years ± 7.2,
range 39-89 years). The mean diurnal IOP was 23.7 ± 3.8 mmHg at baseline, 16.9 ± 
3.4 mmHg with DTFC and 15.1 ± 2.9 mmHg after therapy was switched to BTFC (p <
0.0001 each treatment vs baseline; p < 0.0001 DTFC vs BTFC). The proportion of
patients achieving a mean diurnal IOP <18, <16, and <14 mmHg was 76%, 35.4%, and 
12.5% with DTFC and 81.2%, 68.8%, and 37.5% with BTFC (p = 0.20, p < 0.01, and p 
< 0.0001 between the two treatments, respectively). IOP fluctuation did not
differ significantly between the treatments.
CONCLUSION: BTFC can provide additional lowering in the mean diurnal IOP in
patients previously treated with DTFC with no significant differences in the
safety and tolerability profile.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2015.1125507 
PMID: 27115319  [PubMed - in process]


37. Eur J Pharmacol. 2016 Sep 15;787:32-42. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2016.04.048. Epub
2016 Apr 23.

The exit strategy: Pharmacological modulation of extracellular matrix production 
and deposition for better aqueous humor drainage.

Pattabiraman PP(1), Toris CB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Case Western Reserve
University, Wearn Building 411, 11100 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland 44106, United
States. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Case Western Reserve
University, Wearn Building 411, 11100 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland 44106, United
States. Electronic address: cbt22@case.edu.

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is an optic neuropathy and an irreversible
blinding disease. The etiology of glaucoma is not known but numerous risk factors
are associated with this disease including aging, elevated intraocular pressure
(IOP), race, myopia, family history and use of steroids. In POAG, the resistance 
to the aqueous humor drainage is increased leading to elevated IOP. Lowering the 
resistance and ultimately the IOP has been the only way to slow disease
progression and prevent vision loss. The primary drainage pathway comprising of
the trabecular meshwork (TM) is made up of relatively large porous beams
surrounded by extracellular matrix (ECM). Its juxtacanalicular tissue (JCT) or
the cribriform meshwork is made up of cells embedded in dense ECM. The JCT is
considered to offer the major resistance to the aqueous humor outflow. This layer
is adjacent to the endothelial cells forming Schlemm's canal, which provides
approximately 10% of the outflow resistance. The ECM in the TM and the JCT
undergoes continual remodeling to maintain normal resistance to aqueous humor
outflow. It is believed that the TM is a major contributor of ECM proteins and
evidence points towards increased ECM deposition in the outflow pathway in POAG. 
It is not clear how and from where the ECM components emerge to hinder the normal
aqueous humor drainage. This review focuses on the involvement of the ECM in
ocular hypertension and glaucoma and the mechanisms by which various ocular
hypotensive drugs, both current and emerging, target ECM production, remodeling, 
and deposition.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2016.04.048 
PMID: 27112663  [PubMed - in process]


38. Paediatr Drugs. 2016 Jun;18(3):209-19. doi: 10.1007/s40272-016-0174-4.

Pediatric Glaucoma: Pharmacotherapeutic Options.

Samant M(1,)(2), Medsinge A(1,)(2,)(3), Nischal KK(4,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, Pediatric Ophthalmology,
Strabismus, and Adult Motility, 4401 Penn Avenue, Suite 5000, Pittsburgh, PA,
15224, USA. (2)UPMC Eye Center, Pittsburgh, USA. (3)University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, USA. (4)Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of
UPMC, Pediatric Ophthalmology, Strabismus, and Adult Motility, 4401 Penn Avenue, 
Suite 5000, Pittsburgh, PA, 15224, USA. nischalkk@upmc.edu. (5)UPMC Eye Center,
Pittsburgh, USA. nischalkk@upmc.edu. (6)University of Pittsburgh School of
Medicine, Pittsburgh, USA. nischalkk@upmc.edu.

Childhood glaucoma is a major therapeutic challenge for pediatric
ophthalmologists and glaucoma specialists worldwide. Management depends on the
etiology and age at presentation. A variety of drugs are available for the
control of intraocular pressure in children; however, none of these drugs have
been licensed by the regulatory agencies for use in children. Furthermore,
evidence gained from randomized controlled trials in the pediatric population is 
sparse, and little is known regarding the use of newer anti-glaucoma
preparations. This evidence-based review aims to discuss the available
pharmacotherapeutic options for glaucoma in children. Topical adrenoceptor
blockers, topical and systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, prostaglandin (PG) 
analogs, adrenoceptor agonists, parasympathomimetics, and combined preparations
are available for use in children, but usually as an off-label indication.
Therefore, it is important to recognize that serious side effects have been
reported, even with topical drops, and measures to reduce systemic absorption
should be taken. Most drugs have been shown to have comparable ocular hypotensive
effects, with the lowest occurrence of systemic side effects with PG analogs.
Whereas a newly introduced prostaglandin analog, tafluprost, and some other
preservative-free preparations have shown promising results in adult glaucoma
patients, no pediatric reports are available as yet. Future studies may describe 
their role in treating pediatric glaucoma. This review also shares some suggested
treatment pathways for primary congenital glaucoma (PCG), juvenile open angle
glaucoma (JOAG), developmental glaucoma, aphakic/pseudophakic glaucoma, and
uveitic glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s40272-016-0174-4 
PMID: 27093864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Front Aging Neurosci. 2016 Apr 8;8:73. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2016.00073. eCollection
2016.

Citicoline: A Food Beneficial for Patients Suffering from or Threated with
Glaucoma.

Grieb P(1), Jünemann A(2), Rekas M(3), Rejdak R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Pharmacology, Mossakowski Medical Research Centre, 
Polish Academy of Sciences Warsaw, Poland. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
University of Rostock Rostock, Germany. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Military 
Institute of Medicine Warsaw, Poland. (4)Department of Experimental Pharmacology,
Mossakowski Medical Research Centre, Polish Academy of SciencesWarsaw, Poland;
Department of General Ophthalmology, Medical University of LublinLublin, Poland.

Comment in
    Front Aging Neurosci. 2016;8:194.

Oral form of citicoline, a nootropic and neuroprotective drug in use for almost
five decades, recently was pronounced a food supplement in both USA and EU. The
idea of adding citicoline to topical treatment of primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) aimed at decreasing intraocular pressure (IOP) appeared as a logical
consequence of accepting neurodegenerative character of this disease.
Experimental data, and also few clinical studies indicate that this substance has
potential to counteract some important pathological mechanisms which seem to
contribute to POAG initiation and progression, such as excitotoxicity and
oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2016.00073 
PMCID: PMC4824764
PMID: 27092075  [PubMed]


40. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Apr 15. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12763. [Epub ahead of print]

Associations between Chronic Systemic Diseases and Primary Open Angle Glaucoma:
An Epidemiological Perspective.

Tham YC(1,)(2), Cheng CY(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National
University of Singapore and National University Health System, Singapore.
(3)Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences Academic Clinical Program, Duke-NUS Medical 
School, Singapore.

Glaucoma is a leading cause of global irreversible blindness. Primary open angle 
glaucoma (POAG) is the most common form of glaucoma and affects 44.1 million
individuals worldwide. Elevation of intraocular pressure and impairment of
vascular supply to the optic nerve head are two key pathogenic processes in the
development of POAG. In this regard, chronic systemic conditions such as
hypertension, diabetes, obesity have been postulated to be correlated with these 
two pathogenic processes. Thus, it is plausible that chronic systemic diseases
may act as risk factors for POAG. The aim of this review is to summarize the
current evidence on the associations of chronic systemic diseases with POAG.
These information will help to further ascertain the risk factors for POAG, and
improve the early detection of POAG.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12763 
PMID: 27083150  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


41. Eye Vis (Lond). 2016 Apr 5;3:10. doi: 10.1186/s40662-016-0041-y. eCollection
2016.

Where does selective laser trabeculoplasty stand now? A review.

De Keyser M(1), De Belder M(2), De Belder S(3), De Groot V(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610
Antwerp, Belgium ; Medipolis, Boomsesteenweg 223, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium.
(2)Faculty of Psychology and Education, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Ghent University, Henri Dunantlaan 2, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium. (3)Department of
Medicine, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610
Antwerp, Belgium ; Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Antwerp,
Wilrijkstraat 10, B-2650 Edegem, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Chronic treatment of glaucoma can present a challenge in patients who
lack the means and/or the discipline to use daily glaucoma medication. We
wondered if selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) could be a useful alternative.
METHODS:
INCLUSION CRITERIA: controlled trials comparing efficacy of SLT in adult patients
with any form of open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension and case reports on
side effects of SLT. Two recent meta-analyses identified eight randomized
clinical trials (RCTs) comparing the effect of SLT with medication (prostaglandin
analogs) and with argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT). We took these eight RCTs as 
reference base and calculated their success rates where they were not given.
Other articles were added to elaborate on technique and side effects.
RESULTS: Mean intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction after SLT was 3.8-8.0 mmHg
after 6 months to 1 year. Mean success rate of SLT at 6 months to 1 year is
55-82 %. Higher IOP before laser predicts a higher IOP-lowering effect. In terms 
of mean IOP reduction, reduction in number of medications and treatment success, 
the effect of SLT was found to show no clinically relevant difference from that
of contemporary medication (prostaglandin analogs) and from ALT.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence indicates that SLT is an efficacious primary or
adjunctive therapy for treating glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1186/s40662-016-0041-y 
PMCID: PMC4820926
PMID: 27051674  [PubMed]


42. J Glaucoma. 2016 Aug;25(8):704-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000405.

Medium-term Outcomes of Unsutured Scleral Flap Trabeculectomies.

Wang BZ(1), Ang GS, Meagher P.

Author information: 
(1)The Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

PURPOSE: To examine the clinical characteristics and medium-term outcomes of
unsutured scleral flap trabeculectomies.
PATIENT AND METHODS: A retrospective review of 45 patients who underwent 50
unsutured scleral flap trabeculectomies by a single ophthalmic surgeon.
Information pertaining to each patient's demographic details, preoperative
assessment, surgical procedure, and 2 years of postoperative management were
obtained.
RESULTS: The average age of patients was 72.4±12.5 (range, 30 to 97) years. The
diagnosis was primary open-angle glaucoma in 38 (76.0%) cases. The average
preoperative, 1 year postoperative and 2-year postoperative intraocular pressure 
(with number of topical antiglaucoma medications) were 20.8 (2.5), 13.2 (0.4),
and 12.6 mm Hg (0.7), respectively. The procedure performed was a trabeculectomy 
alone in 32 (64.0%) cases, and combined trabeculectomy and phacoemulsification in
18 (36.0%) cases. Four were performed with mitomycin C. Three procedures (6%) had
intraoperative complications (2 iris prolapses, 1 subconjunctival hemorrhage).
Seven procedures were complicated by a postoperative choroidal detachment, which 
were managed conservatively and resolved spontaneously over time. There was 1
case (2%) of postoperative hypotony, which failed to resolve (intraocular
pressure of <6 mm Hg for >3 months).
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of unsutured scleral flap trabeculectomies had an
acceptable risk profile and resulted in a decrease in the intraocular pressure at
2 years postoperatively.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000405 
PMID: 27027227  [PubMed - in process]


43. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2015 Sep-Dec;9(3):65-8. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1186. Epub 2016 Feb 2.

Suitability of the Visual Field Index according to Glaucoma Severity.

Sousa MC(1), Biteli LG(2), Dorairaj S(3), Maslin JS(4), Leite MT(5), Prata TS(6).

Author information: 
(1)Resident, Department of Ophthalmology, Federal University of Sao Paulo, Sao
Paulo, Brazil. (2)Preceptor, Glaucoma Service, Department of Ophthalmology,
Federal University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil. (3)Associate Professor,
Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic, Florida, USA. (4)Resident, Department
of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Yale University School of Medicine, CT, USA.
(5)Medical Staff, Glaucoma Service, Department of Ophthalmology, Federal
University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil. (6)Assistant Professor, Department of
Ophthalmology, Federal University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

PURPOSE: To investigate the suitability of the visual field index (VFI) in
different degrees of disease severity in glaucoma patients.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, we consecutively enrolled patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma and glaucoma suspects (ocular hypertension). All eyes
required a reliable standard automated perimetry (SAP) test to be included.
Subjects were categorized into five groups based on glaucoma severity using SAP's
mean deviation (MD). To evaluate the correlation among VFI, MD and pattern
standard deviation (PSD), a linear regression model was built. To evaluate the
nature of the correlation (i.e. linear vs nonlinear), results were plotted in a
scatterplot graph.
RESULTS: One hundred and twenty-two eyes of 81 patients (mean age, 59.8 ± 14.5
years) were included. A strong, positive association was found between MD and VFI
values (R(2) = 0.98, p < 0.001), showing a 3.2% reduction in the VFI for each dB 
loss in the MD index. It was noticed that 15% of eyes with mild glaucoma (average
MD of -3.1 dB) had VFI > 99%. Considering only the eyes with mild and moderate
damage in the regression, we found a weaker (nonlinear) correlation than the one 
we found using all eyes (R(2) = 0.85, p < 0.001). There was also a significant,
nonlinear correlation between VFI and PSD (R(2) = 0.85, p < 0.001). Although
higher PSD values were found with increasing visual field damage, this initial
trend was reversed when VFI became smaller than 50%, approximately.
CONCLUSION: Visual field index had a strong correlation with MD; however, this
correlation was weaker in mild disease, as some patients with early disease had
very high VFI values (ceiling effect). Therefore, initial deterioration in visual
field status (as assessed by MD values) in patients with early disease may not be
detectable using the VFI alone. How to cite this article: Sousa MCC, Biteli LG,
Dorairaj S, Maslin JS, Leite M, Prata TS. Suitability of the Visual Field Index
according to Glaucoma Severity. J Curr Glaucoma Pract 2015;9(3):65-68.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1186 
PMCID: PMC4779942
PMID: 26997838  [PubMed]


44. Cytokine Growth Factor Rev. 2016 Jun;29:23-33. doi:
10.1016/j.cytogfr.2016.03.001. Epub 2016 Mar 4.

Regulation of TBK1 activity by Optineurin contributes to cell cycle-dependent
expression of the interferon pathway.

Weil R(1), Laplantine E(1), Génin P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Signaling and Pathogenesis Laboratory, CNRS UMR 3691, 75724 
Paris Cedex 15, France. (2)Institut Pasteur, Signaling and Pathogenesis
Laboratory, CNRS UMR 3691, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France. Electronic address:
pierre.genin@pasteur.fr.

The innate immune system has evolved to detect and neutralize viral invasions.
Triggering of this defense mechanism relies on the production and secretion of
soluble factors that stimulate intracellular antiviral defense mechanisms. The
Tank Binding Kinase 1 (TBK1) is a serine/threonine kinase in the innate immune
signaling pathways including the antiviral response and the host defense against 
cytosolic infection by bacteries. Given the critical roles of TBK1, important
regulatory mechanisms are required to regulate its activity. Among these,
Optineurin (Optn) was shown to negatively regulate the interferon response, in
addition to its important role in membrane trafficking, protein secretion,
autophagy and cell division. As Optn does not carry any enzymatic activity, its
functions depend on its precise subcellular localization and its interaction with
other proteins, especially with components of the innate immune pathway. This
review highlights advances in our understanding of Optn mechanisms of action with
focus on the relationships between Optn and TBK1 and their implication in host
defense against pathogens. Specifically, how the antiviral immune system is
controlled during the cell cycle by the Optn/TBK1 axis and the physiological
consequences of this regulatory mechanism are described. This review may serve to
a better understanding of the relationships between the different functions of
Optn, including those related to immune responses and its associated pathologies 
such as primary open-angle glaucoma, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Paget's
disease of bone.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cytogfr.2016.03.001 
PMID: 26976762  [PubMed - in process]


45. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016;31(1-2):169-77. doi: 10.3109/08820538.2015.1114867.

Translational Vision Rehabilitation: From Eccentric Fixation to Reading
Rehabilitation.

Mishra A(1), Jackson ML(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Harvard
Medical School , Boston , Massachusetts , USA , and. (2)b Ophthalmology and
Vision Sciences, University of British Columbia , Vancouver , British Columbia , 
Canada.

Eccentric fixation is a commonly used adaptive strategy in patients with central 
vision loss. A common complaint in patients with central vision loss is reading
difficulty. The mechanisms as to how and why eccentric fixation develops comprise
an exciting area of research. As we better understand this phenomenon, we may
apply these findings to the clinical setting and in particular to reading
rehabilitation. Biofeedback is a new technique that can be applied to eccentric
fixation and may have a role in reading rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.3109/08820538.2015.1114867 
PMID: 26959144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016;31(1-2):140-6. doi: 10.3109/08820538.2015.1114845.

Is Estrogen a Therapeutic Target for Glaucoma?

Dewundara SS(1), Wiggs JL(1), Sullivan DA(1,)(2), Pasquale LR(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Harvard Medical School , Massachusetts Eye and
Ear , Boston , Massachusetts , USA . (2)b Schepens Eye Research Institute ,
Massachusetts Eye and Ear , Boston , Massachusetts , USA , and. (3)c Division of 
Network Medicine , Brigham and Women's Hospital , Boston , Massachusetts , USA.

This article's objective is to provide an overview of the association between
estrogen and glaucoma. A literature synthesis was conducted of articles published
in peer-reviewed journals screened through May 5, 2015, using the PubMed
database. Keywords used were "estrogen and glaucoma," "reproductive factors and
glaucoma," and "estrogen, nitric oxide and eye." Forty-three journal articles
were included. Results indicated that markers for lifetime estrogen exposure have
been measured by several studies and show that the age of menarche onset, oral
contraceptive (OC) use, bilateral oophorectomy, age of menopause onset and
duration between menarche to menopause are associated with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) risk. The Blue Mountain Eye Study found a significantly increased
POAG risk with later (>13 years) compared with earlier (≤12 years) age of
menarche. Nurses' Health Study (NHS) investigators found that OC use of greater
than 5 years was associated with a 25% increased risk of POAG. The Mayo Clinic
Cohort Study of Oophorectomy and Aging found that women who underwent bilateral
oophorectomy before age 43 years had an increased risk of glaucoma. The Rotterdam
Study found that women who went through menopause before reaching the age of 45
years had a higher risk of open-angle glaucoma (2.6-fold increased risk), while
the NHS showed a reduced risk of POAG among women older than 65 who entered
menopause after age ≥ 54 years. Increased estrogen states may confer a reduced
risk of glaucoma or glaucoma-related traits such as reduced intraocular pressure 
(IOP). Pregnancy, a hyperestrogenemic state, is associated with decreased IOP
during the third trimester. Though the role of postmenopausal hormone (PMH) use
in the reduction of IOP is not fully conclusive, PMH use may reduce the risk of
POAG. From a genetic epidemiologic perspective, estrogen metabolic pathway single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were associated with POAG in women and
polymorphisms in endothelial nitric oxide synthase, a gene receptive to estrogen 
regulation, are associated with glaucoma. The study concluded that increasing
evidence suggests that lifetime exposure to estrogen may alter the pathogenesis
of glaucoma. Estrogen exposure may have a neuroprotective effect on the
progression of POAG but further studies need to confirm this finding. The role of
sex-specific preventive and therapeutic treatment may be on the horizon.

DOI: 10.3109/08820538.2015.1114845 
PMCID: PMC4930553
PMID: 26959139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016;31(1-2):131-9. doi: 10.3109/08820538.2015.1114855.

Translating the Low Translaminar Cribrosa Pressure Gradient Hypothesis into the
Clinical Care of Glaucoma.

Guy AH(1), Wiggs JL(1), Turalba A(1), Pasquale LR(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Glaucoma Service, Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear
Infirmary, Harvard Medical School , Boston , Massachusetts , USA , and. (2)b
Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School , Boston , Massachusetts , USA.

Glaucoma is an optic neuropathy with multiple known risk factors, including age, 
race, family history, and intraocular pressure. Unfortunately, the only currently
modifiable risk factor in treating the disease is intraocular pressure (IOP).
Recent studies have investigated intracranial pressure (ICP) and the translaminar
cribrosa pressure gradient as a potential explanation for glaucomatous optic
nerve vulnerability across a range of IOP values. The difference between these
two pressures across the lamina cribrosa may have an effect on the optic nerve,
which could provide another modifiable parameter in the battle against glaucoma. 
In order for modification of the translaminar pressure gradient to be considered 
in the treatment of glaucoma, noninvasive methods to accurately measure ICP need 
to be developed. The translaminar pressure gradient could be therapeutically
adjusted by either further lowering the IOP or raising the ICP when it is
pathologically low, if possible.

DOI: 10.3109/08820538.2015.1114855 
PMID: 26959138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Mediators Inflamm. 2016;2016:4083735. doi: 10.1155/2016/4083735. Epub 2016 Jan
20.

The Role of the IL-20 Subfamily in Glaucoma.

Wirtz MK(1), Keller KE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Casey Eye Institute, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 S.W. Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, OR 97239, USA.

Glaucoma is a common disease that leads to loss of peripheral vision and, if left
untreated, ultimately to blindness. While the exact cause(s) of glaucoma is still
unknown, two leading risk factors are age and elevated intraocular pressure.
Several studies suggest a possible link between glaucoma and inflammation in
humans and animal models. In particular, our lab recently identified a T104M
mutation in IL-20 receptor-B (IL-20RB) in primary open angle glaucoma patients
from a large pedigree. Several of the interleukin- (IL-) 20 family of cytokines
and receptors are expressed in ocular tissues including the trabecular meshwork, 
optic nerve head, and retinal ganglion cells. The DBA/2J mouse develops high
intraocular pressures with age and has characteristic optic nerve defects that
make it a useful glaucoma model. IL-24 expression is significantly upregulated in
the retina of these mice, while IL-20RA expression in the optic nerve is
downregulated following pressure-induced damage. The identification of a mutation
in the IL-20RB gene in a glaucoma pedigree and changes in expression levels of
IL-20 family members in the DBA/2J mouse suggest that disruption of normal IL-20 
signaling in the eye may contribute to degenerative processes associated with
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/4083735 
PMCID: PMC4745377
PMID: 26903709  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2016 Jan-Feb;5(1):79-84. doi:
10.1097/APO.0000000000000174.

Lowering of Intraocular Pressure After Phacoemulsification in Primary Open-Angle 
and Angle-Closure Glaucoma: A Bayesian Analysis.

Thomas R(1), Walland M, Thomas A, Mengersen K.

Author information: 
(1)From the *Queensland Eye Institute; †University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Queensland; ‡Glaucoma Investigation and Research Unit, Royal Victorian Eye & Ear 
Institute, Melbourne, Victoria; and §Discipline of Mathematical Sciences,
Queensland, University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

Phacoemulsification as treatment for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) remains
more controversial than for primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG). If the
objective of glaucoma surgery is an additional greater than or equal to 5 to 6 mm
Hg reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP), the role of phacoemulsification
should be based on the probability of achieving this. A Bayesian analysis of
available data was performed to calculate the change in IOP after
phacoemulsification in POAG and PACG. Standard meta-analysis formulation with
prephacoemulsification and postphacoemulsification IOP-assumed to have normal
distributions, with study-specific means and SDs-was used. Absolute and relative 
change in IOP was calculated using different priors, and sensitivity analyses
were performed. The prior that just included a decrease of greater than or equal 
to 6 mm Hg in the 95% credible interval was identified. The probability of
achieving greater than or equal to 5 to 6 mm Hg decrease in IOP (and other
levels) was calculated. Depending on the prior, the probability of achieving a
greater than or equal to 5 mm Hg reduction in IOP in POAG varied from 0.1% to 3%.
Confidence in a greater than or equal to 6 mm Hg decrease required a prior belief
that phacoemulsification produces a mean decrease of 7 mm Hg. The probability of 
a decrease in IOP was greater in PACG: approximately 50% probability of a greater
than or equal to 5 mm Hg decrease in PACG uncontrolled on medications.
Phacoemulsification in POAG has a high probability of producing a small decrease 
in IOP that may be useful in early, well-controlled disease. The probability of a
clinically significant decrease of greater than or equal to 5 to 6 mm Hg-required
for advanced/uncontrolled disease-is low. Results support the role of
phacoemulsification in PACG.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000174 
PMID: 26886123  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2016 Jan-Feb;5(1):63-9. doi:
10.1097/APO.0000000000000175.

Selective Laser Trabeculoplasty: An Update.

Kennedy JB(1), SooHoo JR, Kahook MY, Seibold LK.

Author information: 
(1)From the University of Colorado School of Medicine, Department of
Ophthalmology, Aurora, CO.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) is an effective treatment option for the
reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with ocular hypertension or
open-angle glaucoma. The mechanism by which SLT lowers IOP is not completely
understood and is likely multifactorial. Published studies indicate that SLT is
at least as effective as argon laser trabeculoplasty or medications at lowering
IOP in many forms of glaucoma. In addition to IOP reduction, SLT may decrease IOP
fluctuation and can be successfully used as primary or adjunctive therapy for the
management of both early and advanced glaucoma. However, SLT may not be effective
in certain forms of glaucoma, and the IOP-lowering effect seems to wane with
time. High pretreatment IOP is the strongest predictor of treatment success, even
in patients with normal-tension glaucoma. Repeatability of SLT has been
controversial, but recent evidence suggests that it can be successfully repeated 
to achieve additional or recurrent IOP reduction, even in eyes that only had a
modest response to initial treatment. Adverse events are uncommon after SLT, and 
the most common complications such as discomfort and inflammation are typically
mild and transient. Further investigation is required to determine the optimal
treatment parameters for SLT treatment. Limited evidence suggests that SLT is
cost-effective as primary therapy for patients with glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000175 
PMID: 26886122  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2016 Jan-Feb;5(1):51-8. doi:
10.1097/APO.0000000000000181.

Update on the Medical Treatment of Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma.

Cheema A(1), Chang RT, Shrivastava A, Singh K.

Author information: 
(1)From the *Department of Ophthalmology, Kaiser Permanente, Atlanta, GA;
†Department of Ophthalmology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
CA; and ‡Department of Ophthalmology, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine/Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY.

Glaucoma comprises a group of progressive, neurodegenerative disorders
characterized by retinal ganglion cell death and nerve fiber layer atrophy.
Several randomized controlled trials have consistently demonstrated the efficacy 
of intraocular pressure lowering to slow or halt the measurable progression of
the disease. Medical therapy, in places where it is easily accessible, is often
the primary method to lower intraocular pressure. We review the medical options
currently available and possible future options currently in development. The 5
contemporary classes of topical agents in use include prostaglandin analogs, beta
blockers, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, alpha agonists, and cholinergics. In
addition, several fixed combination agents are commercially available. Agents
from each of these classes have unique mechanisms of action, adverse effects, and
other characteristics that impact how they are used in clinical practice. Despite
the plethora of medical options available, there are limitations to topical
ophthalmic therapy such as the high rate of noncompliance and local and systemic 
adverse effects. Alternate and sustained drug delivery models, such as injectable
agents and punctal plug delivery systems, may in the future alleviate some such
concerns and lead to increased efficacy of treatment while minimizing adverse
effects.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000181 
PMID: 26886120  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2016 Jan-Feb;5(1):23-31. doi:
10.1097/APO.0000000000000177.

Update on the Prevalence, Etiology, Diagnosis, and Monitoring of Normal-Tension
Glaucoma.

Kim KE(1), Park KH.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide. Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
is a type of open-angle glaucoma with intraocular pressure measurements always 21
mm Hg or less. A controversy surrounding NTG is the question of whether it should
be regarded as a disease within the spectrum of primary open-angle glaucoma or as
a distinctive disease entity. Nonetheless, NTG does have distinctive features
compared with primary open-angle glaucoma: intraocular pressure-independent risk 
factors for development of NTG, characteristic patterns of structural and
functional damage, and a unique disease course. This review provides an overview 
and update on the current issues surrounding the prevalence, etiology, diagnosis,
and monitoring of NTG.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000177 
PMID: 26886116  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2016 Jan-Feb;5(1):11-6. doi:
10.1097/APO.0000000000000179.

Optical Coherence Tomography Imaging for Glaucoma - Today and Tomorrow.

Leung CK(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

Digital imaging technologies for glaucoma diagnostics have evolved rapidly over
the recent years. From time-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) to
spectral-domain and swept-source OCTs, the application of OCT for analysis of the
anterior chamber angle and the optic nerve head (ONH) is expanding. The
second-generation anterior segment swept-source OCT is able to image the
configuration of the anterior chamber angle in 3 dimensions in less than 1 second
and perform 360-degree analysis of the anterior chamber angle width for detection
of angle closure. The morphology, density, and dimensions of the crystalline lens
in relation to the anterior chamber can now be examined from the anterior corneal
surface to the posterior lens surface, facilitating the investigation of the
involvement of the crystalline lens in primary angle closure. Spectral-domain and
swept-source OCTs have improved the measurement reliability of the lamina
cribrosa and the neuroretinal rim configurations. Studying the deformation of the
lamina cribrosa and ONH surfaces is relevant to decipher the mechanisms of ONH
damage in the development and progression of glaucoma. Software and algorithms
for automatic analysis of the anterior chamber angle dimensions and deformation
of the ONH and lamina cribrosa surfaces are required to process large volumetric 
data sets, and they are under active development. It is expected that new imaging
technologies will improve the detection and risk assessment of angle-closure and 
open-angle glaucomas.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000179 
PMID: 26886114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Ophthalmic Res. 2016;55(4):172-9. doi: 10.1159/000443627. Epub 2016 Feb 13.

Association of MMP-9 Gene Polymorphisms with Glaucoma: A Meta-Analysis.

Zhang Y(1), Wang M, Zhang S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Affiliated Hospital of Suzhou University,
Changzhou No. 4 People's Hospital, Changzhou, China.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the associations between matrix
metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) gene polymorphisms (rs17576 and rs3918249) and
glaucoma risk. All eligible studies were searched in PubMed, Embase, the Cochrane
Library and the China Knowledge Resource Integrated Database. Pooled odds ratios 
and 95% confidence intervals were used to assess associations between MMP-9 gene 
polymorphisms and glaucoma. Seven studies on rs17576 (1,357 cases and 1,432
controls) and 3 studies on rs3918249 (550 cases and 794 controls) were included. 
The results suggest that rs17576 was not associated with glaucoma risk based on
current publications. However, stratification analyses indicated that GG
genotypes increased the risk of primary open-angle glaucoma in a recessive model 
(GG vs. AA + AG). The rs3918249 polymorphism was also associated with a decreased
risk of glaucoma, especially for Caucasian patients. To sum up, our data indicate
that rs17576 polymorphism is not related to glaucoma and rs3918249 polymorphism
might be a protective factor against glaucoma.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000443627 
PMID: 26872021  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Feb 12;2:CD005655. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD005655.pub2.

Peripheral iridotomy for pigmentary glaucoma.

Michelessi M(1), Lindsley K.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology, Fondazione G.B. Bietti per lo studio e la ricerca in
Oftalmolologia-IRCCS, Via Livenza n 3, Rome, Italy, 00198.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is a chronic optic neuropathy characterized by retinal
ganglion cell death resulting in damage to the optic nerve head and the retinal
nerve fiber layer. Pigment dispersion syndrome is characterized by a structural
disturbance in the iris pigment epithelium (the densely pigmented posterior
surface of the iris) that leads to dispersion of the pigment and its deposition
on various structures within the eye. Pigmentary glaucoma is a specific form of
open-angle glaucoma found in patients with pigment dispersion syndrome.Topcial
medical therapy is usually the first-line treatment; however, peripheral laser
iridotomy has been proposed as an alternate treatment. Peripheral laser iridotomy
involves creating an opening in the iris tissue to allow drainage of fluid from
the posterior chamber to the anterior chamber and vice versa. Equalizing the
pressure within the eye may help to alleviate the friction that leads to pigment 
dispersion and prevent visual field deterioration. However, the effectiveness of 
peripheral laser iridotomy in reducing the development or progression of
pigmentary glaucoma is unknown.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review was to assess the effects of peripheral 
laser iridotomy compared with other interventions, including medication,
trabeculoplasty, and trabeculectomy, or no treatment, for pigment dispersion
syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched a number of electronic databases including CENTRAL,
MEDLINE and EMBASE and clinical trials websites such as (mRCT) and
ClinicalTrials.gov. We last searched the electronic databases on 2 November 2015.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that had
compared peripheral laser iridotomy versus no treatment or other treatments for
pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard methodological procedures for
systematic reviews. Two review authors independently screened articles for
eligibility, extracted data, and assessed included trials for risk of bias. We
did not perform a meta-analysis because of variability in reporting and follow-up
intervals for primary and secondary outcomes of interest.
MAIN RESULTS: We included five RCTs (260 eyes of 195 participants) comparing
yttrium-aluminum-garnet (YAG) laser iridotomy versus no laser iridotomy. Three
trials included participants with pigmentary glaucoma at baseline, and two trials
enrolled participants with pigment dispersion syndrome. Only two trials reported 
the country of enrollment: one - Italy, the other - United Kingdom. Overall, we
assessed trials as having high or unclear risk of bias owing to incomplete or
missing data and selective outcome reporting.Data on visual fields were available
for one of three trials that included participants with pigmentary glaucoma at
baseline. At an average follow-up of 28 months, the risk of progression of visual
field damage was uncertain when comparing laser iridotomy with no iridotomy (risk
ratio (RR) 1.00, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 0.16 to 6.25; 32 eyes; very
low-quality evidence). The two trials that enrolled participants with pigment
dispersion syndrome at baseline reported the proportion of participants with
onset of glaucomatous visual field changes during the study period. At three-year
follow-up, one trial reported that the risk ratio for conversion to glaucoma was 
2.72 (95% CI 0.76 to 9.68; 42 eyes; very low-quality evidence). At 10-year
follow-up, the other trial reported that no eye showed visual field
progression.One trial reported the mean change in intraocular pressure (IOP) in
eyes with pigmentary glaucoma: At an average of nine months of follow-up, the
mean difference in IOP between groups was 2.69 mmHg less in the laser iridotomy
group than in the control group (95% CI -6.05 to 0.67; 14 eyes; very low-quality 
evidence). This trial also reported the mean change in anterior chamber depth at 
an average of nine months of follow-up and reported no meaningful differences
between groups (mean difference 0.04 mm, 95% CI -0.07 to 0.15; 14 eyes; very
low-quality evidence). No other trial reported mean change in anterior chamber
depth. Two trials reported greater flattening of iris configuration in the laser 
iridotomy group than in the control group among eyes with pigmentary glaucoma;
however, investigators provided insufficient data for analysis. No trial reported
data related to mean visual acuity, aqueous melanin granules, costs, or quality
of life outcomes.Two trials assessed the need for additional treatment for
control of IOP. One trial that enrolled participants with pigmentary glaucoma
reported that more eyes in the laser iridotomy group required additional
treatment between six and 23 months of follow-up than eyes in the control group
(RR 1.73, 95% CI 1.08 to 2.75; 46 eyes); however, the other trial enrolled
participants with pigment dispersion syndrome and indicated that the difference
between groups at three-year follow-up was uncertain (RR 0.91, 95% CI 0.38 to
2.17; 105 eyes). We graded the certainty of evidence for this outcome as very
low.Two trials reported that no serious adverse events were observed in either
group among eyes with pigment dispersion syndrome. Mild adverse events included
postoperative inflammation; two participants required cataract surgery (at 18 and
34 months after baseline), and two participants required a repeat iridotomy.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found insufficient evidence of high quality on the
effectiveness of peripheral iridotomy for pigmentary glaucoma or pigment
dispersion syndrome. Although adverse events associated with peripheral iridotomy
may be minimal, the long-term effects on visual function and other
patient-important outcomes have not been established. Future research on this
topic should focus on outcomes that are important to patients and the optimal
timing of treatment in the disease process (eg, pigment dispersion syndrome with 
normal IOP, pigment dispersion syndrome with established ocular hypertension,
pigmentary glaucoma).

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005655.pub2 
PMCID: PMC5032906 [Available on 2017-02-12]
PMID: 26871761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Vestn Oftalmol. 2015 Sep-Oct;131(5):104-8.

[Current data on the role of anthocyanosides and flavonoids in the treatment of
eye diseases].

[Article in Russian]

Vorob'eva IV.

Anthocyanins are known to have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective,
and anticarcinogenic activity as well as positive effect on the cardiovascular
system. Because of bilberry anthocyanosides (Vaccinium myrtillus L.), Mirtilene
forte promotes rhodopsin synthesis and regeneration, increases retinal
sensitivity to changes in light intensity, improves visual acuity and dark
adaptation as well as blood supply of the retina. Studies conducted in Russia are
aimed at evaluating the use of Mirtilene forte in age-related macular
degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, primary open-angle glaucoma, and other
diseases. This article provides an analysis of foreign and Russian publications
on the effects of anthocyanins and flavonoids in different diseases.


PMID: 26845880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Oct;100(10):1437-41. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-307486.
Epub 2016 Feb 1.

Repeatability of selective laser trabeculoplasty.

Polat J(1), Grantham L(2), Mitchell K(3), Realini T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, UPMC Eye Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)West Virginia University School of Medicine, Morgantown, West Virginia, USA.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, West Virginia University Eye Institute,
Morgantown, West Virginia, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy of repeat 
360° selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) in patients with open-angle glaucoma
having undergone prior successful 360° SLT.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of 38 eyes of 38 patients with open-angle
glaucoma (primary, pseudoexfoliation or pigmentary glaucoma) uncontrolled on
medical therapy who had undergone two successive 360° SLT treatments, in whom
first SLT was deemed clinically successful through a minimum of 6 months
follow-up and who were followed for a minimum of 30 days after second SLT. Mean
IOP at each postoperative time point (1, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months) was compared
with baseline using paired t tests. IOP changes after initial and repeat SLT were
evaluated separately.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) baseline IOP before initial SLT was 21.6 (4.8) mm Hg. Mean IOP
following initial SLT was significantly below baseline through 24 months of
follow-up, with mean IOP at months 1-24 ranging from 15.9 to 18.6 mm Hg. Mean
baseline IOP before repeat SLT was 19.1 (3.9) mm Hg, with a significant reduction
in IOP from baseline through 24 months follow-up with mean IOP ranging from 14.7 
to 17.0 mm Hg. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed longer median survival time 
for repeat SLT compared with initial SLT. No safety issues were observed with
repeat SLT.
CONCLUSIONS: Repeat SLT can restore IOP control in eyes with open-angle glaucoma 
that have previously undergone successful initial SLT. Repeat SLT achieves
comparable absolute level of IOP control achieved by initial SLT.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-307486 
PMID: 26834070  [PubMed - in process]


58. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 May;100(5):594-600. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-307131. 
Epub 2016 Jan 5.

Review and meta-analysis of ab-interno trabeculectomy outcomes.

Kaplowitz K(1), Bussel II(2), Honkanen R(3), Schuman JS(4), Loewen NA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, VA Loma Linda Healthcare System, Loma Linda, CA, 
USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, UPMC Eye Center, Eye and Ear Institute,
Ophthalmology and Visual Science Research Center, University of Pittsburgh School
of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. (3)Stony Brook University School of
Medicine, Ophthalmology, Stony Brook, NY, USA. (4)Department of Ophthalmology,
UPMC Eye Center, Eye and Ear Institute, Ophthalmology and Visual Science Research
Center, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
USA Department of Bioengineering, Swanson School of Engineering, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

We analysed all of the PubMed publications on ab-interno trabeculectomy (AIT)
with the Trabectome (Neomedix, Irvine, California, USA) to determine the
reduction in intraocular pressure (IOP) and medications following the procedure. 
For IOP outcomes, PubMed was searched for 'trabectome', 'ab interno
trabeculotomy' and 'ab interno trabeculectomy' and all available papers
retrieved. The meta-analysis used a random-effects model to achieve conservative 
estimates and assess statistical heterogeneity. To investigate complications, we 
included all abstracts from the American Glaucoma Society, American Academy of
Ophthalmology, American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery and the
Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology. The overall arithmetic mean
baseline IOP for standalone Trabectome was 26.71±1.34 mm Hg and decreased by
10.5±1.9 mm Hg (39% decrease) on 0.99±0.54 fewer medications. Defining success as
IOP ≤21 with a 20% decrease while avoiding reoperation, the overall average
success rate after 2 years was 46±34%. For combined
phacoemulsification-Trabectome, the baseline IOP of 21±1.31 mm Hg decreased by
6.24±1.98 mm Hg (27% decrease) on 0.76±0.35 fewer medications. The success rate
using the same definition at 2 years was 85±7%. The weighted mean IOP difference 
from baseline to study endpoint was 9.77 mm Hg (95% CI 8.90 to 10.64) standalone 
and 6.04 mm Hg (95% CI 4.95 to 7.13) for combined cases. Despite heterogeneity,
meta-analysis showed significant and consistent decrease in IOP and medications
from baseline to end point in AIT and phaco-AIT. The rate of visually threatening
complications was <1%. On average, trabectome lowers the IOP by approximately 31%
to a final IOP near 15 mm Hg while decreasing the number of medications by less
than one, with a low rate of serious complications. After 2 years, the overall
average success rate is 66%.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-307131 
PMID: 26733487  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2016 Mar;27(2):94-101. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000245.

Vascular and autonomic dysregulation in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Pasquale LR(1).

Author information: 
(1)aMass Eye and Ear Infirmary bDivision of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this review is to discuss whether vascular
dysfunction and autonomic dysfunction are related to primary open-angle glaucoma 
stratified by the intraocular pressure (IOP) level.
RECENT FINDINGS: Patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) across the
spectrum of IOP exhibit a variety of ocular and nonocular vascular abnormalities.
Interestingly, common genetic variation in nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3) and the
caveolin 1/caveolin 2 (CAV1/CAV2) genomic regions, which code for proteins
involved in setting vascular tone, are associated with POAG. These markers seem
to stratify with POAG subtypes stratified by sex or pattern of initial visual
field loss and not by IOP level. Overall, it is clear that there is also
cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction in high-tension glaucoma and normal-tension 
glaucoma but it is unclear if this dysfunction is more common in normal-tension
glaucoma compared with high-tension glaucoma.
SUMMARY: Overall, POAG is likely a heterogeneous disease but stratifying cases by
IOP level associated with initial optic nerve damage may be less useful than
using other endophenotype approaches. Embracing the evidence suggesting systemic 
endothelial and autonomic dysfunction are operative in POAG will help us move
beyond an IOP-centric view of the disease and facilitate 'tearing down the wall' 
that divides treating physicians and a better understanding of POAG pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000245 
PMCID: PMC4740225 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26720776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Ghana Med J. 2015 Sep;49(3):195-9.

Awareness and Knowledge of Glaucoma Among Adult Patients at the Eye Clinic of a
Teaching Hospital.

Nkum G(1), Lartey S(2), Frimpong C(3), Micah F(2), Nkum B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital, Kumasi, Ghana. (2)Kwame Nkrumah University of 
Science and Technology. College of health Science, Kumasi, Ghana. (3)Garden City 
University, College of Nursing, Kumasi, Ghana.

BACKGROUND: Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is an irreversible blinding
disease that often presents late because it is symptomless in the early stages.
Prognosis depends on early diagnosis and treatment and patient understanding of
their condition. Many patients present late because of poor awareness and
knowledge. This study was conducted to assess patient's awareness and knowledge
of glaucoma in a referral Teaching Hospital.
METHODS: Descriptive cross-sectional study conducted among glaucoma patients aged
40 years and above attending the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH). Patients 
were selected by simple random sampling. They were recruited after informed
consent had been given. A questionnaire on demographics, socio-economics and
awareness of glaucoma was administered.
RESULTS: There were a total of 117 participants, 61 males and 56 females. The
median and modal age group was 50 and 59 years. Amongst the participants, 74%
were aware of glaucoma. There were no significant statistical difference in the
various age groups, sex, ethnic group or religion and their awareness of glaucoma
(P > 0.05).There were statistically significant differences between those who had
higher education and their awareness of glaucoma (P < 0.001). Yet only 27% of
these had accurate knowledge of glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: Glaucoma awareness in patients attending Komfo Anokye Teaching
Hospital is high. Higher education was associated with higher awareness yet this 
was not translated into accurate knowledge as there were significant
misconceptions. There is the need to review the contents of health education with
the aim of reducing dangerous misconception of glaucoma and targeting the lower
socioeconomic population.


PMCID: PMC4676595
PMID: 26693196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Prim Care Companion CNS Disord. 2015 Aug 20;17(4). doi: 10.4088/PCC.14r01731.
eCollection 2015.

Association of Ophthalmologic Disorders and Depression in the Elderly: A Review
of the Literature.

McCusker S(1), Koola MM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Doctor of Medicine Program, Saba University School of Medicine, Saba, Dutch
Caribbean (Dr McCusker); and Clinical Research Program, Sheppard Pratt Health
System, Baltimore, Maryland (Dr Koola).

OBJECTIVE: To review the prevalence of depression in common ophthalmologic
disorders in the elderly and provide insight into treatment.
DATA SOURCES: PubMed, Google Scholar, and DynaMed were searched using the terms
depression and ophthalmology in combination with depression, mood disorders,
cataracts, vision loss, age-related macular degeneration, primary open-angle
glaucoma, and Fuchs corneal dystrophy. Articles were limited to those published
in the English language between 1993 and 2013.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Twenty-eight articles that studied the
prevalence of depression in ophthalmologic disorders were screened and
summarized.
RESULTS: The strongest association between ophthalmologic disorders and
psychiatry is depression. In the future, primary care physicians and
psychiatrists should play a significant role in the assessment and treatment of
depression in visually impaired patients.
CONCLUSION: Greater recognition and treatment of depression in individuals with
impaired vision is warranted.

DOI: 10.4088/PCC.14r01731 
PMCID: PMC4664565
PMID: 26693037  [PubMed]


62. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Dec 4;16(12):28886-911. doi: 10.3390/ijms161226135.

An Updated Review on the Genetics of Primary Open Angle Glaucoma.

Abu-Amero K(1,)(2), Kondkar AA(3), Chalam KV(4).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Research Chair, Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine,
King Saud University, Riyadh 11424, Saudi Arabia. Khaled.Abu-Amero@jax.ufl.edu.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Florida College of Medicine, 580,
W, 8th Street, Tower-2, Jacksonville, FL 32209, USA.
Khaled.Abu-Amero@jax.ufl.edu. (3)Glaucoma Research Chair, Department of
Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh 11424, Saudi
Arabia. akondkar@gmail.com. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Florida
College of Medicine, 580, W, 8th Street, Tower-2, Jacksonville, FL 32209, USA.
kakarla.chalam@jax.ufl.edu.

Epidemiological studies suggest that by 2020 the prevalence of primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) is estimated to increase to 76.0 million, and to 111.8 million by
2040 globally due to the population aging. The prevalence of POAG is the highest 
among those of African descent, followed by Asians, and the lowest in Europeans. 
POAG is a genetically complex trait with a substantial fraction exhibiting a
significant heritability. Less than 10% of POAG cases in the general population
are caused by specific gene mutations and the remaining cases are polygenic.
Quantitative traits related to POAG pathogenesis such as intra-ocular pressure
(IOP), vertical cup/disc ratio (VCDR), optic disc area, and central corneal
thickness (CCT) are highly heritable, and likely to be influenced at least in
part by genes and show substantial variation in human populations. Recent
genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified several single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) at different loci including CAV1/CAV2, TMCO1, CDKN2B-AS1,
CDC7-TGFBR3, SIX1/SIX6, GAS7 and ATOH7 to be associated with POAG and its related
quantitative traits (endophenotypes). The chapter provides a brief overview on
the different GWAS and SNP association studies and their correlation with various
clinical parameters important for POAG in the population worldwide, including the
Middle East.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms161226135 
PMCID: PMC4691082
PMID: 26690118  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Genet Mol Res. 2015 Dec 17;14(4):17262-72. doi: 10.4238/2015.December.16.26.

Association of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the CYP1B1 gene with the risk
of primary open-angle glaucoma: a meta-analysis.

Wang Z(1), Li M(2), Li L(3), Sun H(4), Lin XY(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Jinan Central Hospital Affiliated to Shandong
University, Jinan, Shandong, China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Jiaozhou
Central Hospital of Qingdao, Qingdao, Shandong, China. (3)Department of
Orthopedics, Jinan Central Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University, Jinan,
Shandong, China. (4)Department of Cardiology, Jinan Central Hospital Affiliated
to Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, China. (5)Department of Neurology, Jinan
Central Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, China.

Mutations in the CYP1B1 gene were detected in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) 
patients. However, the association between these mutations and the incidence of
POAG remains to be elucidated. Here, we have conducted a meta-analysis to analyze
this correlation, using relevant studies obtained from an extensive search of
various electronic databases, including EMBase, Web of Science, and PubMed. The
extracted studies were selected for the meta-analysis based on the inclusion and 
exclusion criteria. The quality of each included study was assessed by the
Newcastle-Ottawa scale (NOS), and the I2 value was calculated to evaluate the
heterogeneity between studies. The combined effect size was presented as the odds
ratio (OR), and confidence intervals (CI) were used to assess the association
between POAG and CYP1B1 mutations. Eight studies, each with a high NOS score,
were included in the analysis. Compared to the mutant allele, the wild-type
allele of the rs180040 polymorphism in POAG patients showed a 12% decrease in OR 
(OR = 0.88, 95%CI = 0.76- 1.00); also, the wild-type allele of rs1056827 showed a
23% decrease in OR of the incidence of POAG (OR = 0.77, 95%CI = 0.60-0.99).
However, the latter result was controversial. Polymorphisms at rs1056836,
rs10012, and rs1056837 were not correlated with the incidence of POAG (using any 
evaluation model). In conclusion, three of the tested SNPs in the CYP1B1 gene
were correlated with POAG; however, the SNPs rs180040 and rs1056827 showed an
association with risk of POAG. These results must be further validated with
larger-scale evaluations.

DOI: 10.4238/2015.December.16.26 
PMID: 26681220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2015 Aug;6(4). pii: 450. Epub 2015 Jul 31.

Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma in Individuals of African Descent: A Review of Risk
Factors.

Salowe R(1), Salinas J(1), Farbman NH(1), Mohammed A(1), Warren JZ(1), Rhodes
A(1), Brucker A(1), Regina M(1), Miller-Ellis E(1), Sankar PS(1), Lehman A(1),
O'Brien JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Scheie Eye Institute, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To identify the major risk factors for primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG) in individuals of African descent.
METHODS: We searched PubMed for relevant articles, with results spanning April
1947 to present. All abstracts were reviewed and, where relevant to POAG and
race, articles were catalogued and analyzed. Additional sources were identified
through citations in articles returned by our search.
RESULTS: Numerous potential POAG risk factors were identified and organized into 
categories by demographics (age, sex, and skin color), lifestyle choices
(smoking, alcohol), comorbidities (hypertension, diabetes, and obesity),
ophthalmic findings (eye structure, central corneal thickness, corneal
hysteresis, elevated intraocular pressure, myopia, cataract, and vascular
abnormalities), family history, socioeconomic status, and adherence. Older age,
male sex, lower central corneal thickness, decreased corneal hysteresis, elevated
intraocular pressure, myopia, vascular abnormalities, and positive family history
were definitively associated with increased risk of POAG.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals at greatest risk for POAG should be screened by an
ophthalmologist to allow earlier detection and to slow disease progression.
Further studies on the genetics of the disease will provide more insight into
underlying pathologic mechanisms and could lead to improved therapeutic
interventions. Continued research in urban areas with large populations of blacks
is especially needed.

DOI: 10.4172/2155-9570.1000450 
PMCID: PMC4671514
PMID: 26664770  [PubMed]


65. Clin Ophthalmol. 2015 Nov 24;9:2201-7. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S72380. eCollection
2015.

Clinical effectiveness of brinzolamide 1%-brimonidine 0.2% fixed combination for 
primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Sharma S(1), Trikha S(1), Perera SA(1), Aung T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Department, Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye 
Centre, National University of Singapore, Singapore. (2)Glaucoma Department,
Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye Centre, National
University of Singapore, Singapore ; Department of Ophthalmology, Yong Loo Lin
School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore.

The main first-line treatment strategy for glaucoma is to reduce intraocular
pressure (IOP) by topical ocular hypotensive medications, but many patients
require multiple medications for adequate IOP control. Fixed-combination
therapies provide several benefits, including simplified treatment regimens,
theoretical improved treatment adherence, elimination of the potential for
washout of the first drug by the second, and the reduction in ocular exposure to 
preservatives. β-Adrenoceptor antagonists (particularly 0.5% timolol) are the
most commonly used agents in combination with other classes of drugs as
fixed-combination eyedrops, but they are contraindicated in many patients, owing 
to local allergy or systemic side effects. A fixed-combination preparation
without a β-blocker is therefore warranted. This paper reviews the clinical
effectiveness of brinzolamide 1% and brimonidine 0.2% fixed combination (BBFC)
for use in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. We 
searched PubMed and the ClinicalTrials.gov registry, and identified three
randomized controlled trials comparing BBFC vs its constituents (brimonidine vs
brinzolamide), and one comparing BBFC with unfixed brimonidine and brinzolamide. 
All of the studies demonstrated mean diurnal IOP to be statistically
significantly lower in the BBFC group compared with constituent groups and
noninferior to that with the concomitant group using two separate bottles. The
safety profile of BBFC was consistent with that of its individual components, the
most common ocular adverse events being ocular hyperemia, visual disturbances,
and ocular allergic reactions. Common systemic adverse effects included altered
taste sensation, oral dryness, fatigue, somnolence, and decreased alertness. BBFC
seems to be a promising new fixed combination for use in glaucoma patients.
However, long-term effects of BBFC on IOP, treatment adherence, and safety need
to be determined.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S72380 
PMCID: PMC4664487
PMID: 26648686  [PubMed]


66. Gene. 2016 Feb 15;577(2):119-31. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.11.032. Epub 2015 Nov
24.

Candidate genes involved in the susceptibility of primary open angle glaucoma.

Kumar S(1), Malik MA(1), Goswami S(1), Sihota R(2), Kaur J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ocular Biochemistry, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic
Sciences, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India. (2)Glaucoma 
Research Facility and Clinical Services, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for
Ophthalmic Sciences, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Ocular Biochemistry, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic
Sciences, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India. Electronic
address: kaurjasbir@rediffmail.com.

PURPOSE: Glaucoma is a common disease often identified by high intraocular
pressure, characteristic optic neuropathy and vision loss. It is currently a
leading cause of blindness worldwide with no known cure. Primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) is the most common type of glaucoma worldwide. It is a
multifactorial disease where both genetic as well as environmental factors are
involved in the pathogenesis.
RESULTS: Till date, at least 29 genetic loci have been found to be linked to
POAG. However, the role of only three underlying genes Myocilin (MYOC),
Optineurin (OPTN) and WD repeat Domain 36, (WDR36) is well established. Also, the
role of Cytochrome P450, family 1, subfamily B, polypeptide 1 (CYP1B1),
Glutathione S-transferase mu 1 (GSTM1) and Neurotrophin (NTF4) has been fairly
identified. Association studies have found that 66 loci with 76 genes associated 
to POAG till date, but even more studies are required to confirm their role in
the disease pathology. Gene mutations in various populations have been identified
by genetic studies to establish that about 5% of POAG is currently attributed to 
single-gene or Mendelian forms of glaucoma and others caused by the combined
effects of many genetic and environmental risk factors, each of which do not act 
alone to cause glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: Although the clinical progression of the disease is well defined, the
molecular events responsible for glaucoma are poorly understood and thus the
etiology of POAG remains a mystery. Despite strong genetic influence in POAG
pathogenesis, only a small part of the disease can be explained in terms of
genetic aberration. This review is an overview and update on the latest research 
and progress of genetic studies associated with POAG.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.11.032 
PMID: 26621382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Nov 25;(11):CD009380. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD009380.pub2.

Fornix-based versus limbal-based conjunctival trabeculectomy flaps for glaucoma.

Al-Haddad C(1), Abdulaal M, Al-Moujahed A, Ervin AM.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, American University of Beirut Medical Center, Hamrah
Street, PO Box 110236, Beirut, Lebanon.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is one of the leading largely preventable causes of
blindness in the world. It usually is addressed first medically with topical
intraocular pressure-lowering drops or by laser trabeculoplasty. In cases where
such treatment fails, glaucoma-filtering surgery is considered, most commonly
trabeculectomy surgery with variations in technique, for example, the type of
conjunctival flap (fornix- or limbal-based). In a fornix-based flap, the surgical
wound is performed at the corneal limbus; while in a limbal-based flap, the
incision is further away. Many studies in the literature compare fornix- and
limbal-based trabeculectomy with respect to outcomes and complications.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the comparative effectiveness of fornix- versus
limbal-based conjunctival flaps in trabeculectomy for adult glaucoma, with a
specific focus on intraocular pressure (IOP) control and complications (adverse
effects).
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision 
Trials Register) (2015, Issue 9), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In-Process and Other
Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid OLDMEDLINE (January 1946 to
October 2015), EMBASE (January 1980 to October 2015), Latin American and
Caribbean Health Sciences Literature Database (LILACS) (January 1982 to October
2015), the ISRCTN registry (www.isrctn.com/editAdvancedSearch),
ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the World Health Organization
(WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP)
(www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions
in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the electronic databases 
on 23 October 2015.We reviewed the bibliographic references of identified
randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in order to find trials not identified by the
electronic searches. We contacted researchers and practitioners active in the
field of glaucoma to identify other published and unpublished trials.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included RCTs comparing the benefits and complications of 
fornix- versus limbal-based trabeculectomy for glaucoma, irrespective of glaucoma
type, publication status, and language. We excluded studies on children less than
18 years of age, since wound healing is different in this age group and the rate 
of bleb scarring postoperatively is high.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data and
assessed trial quality. We contacted study authors for additional information.The
primary outcome was the proportion of failed trabeculectomies at 24 months.
Failure was defined as the need for repeat surgery or uncontrolled IOP (more than
22 mmHg), despite additional topical/systemic medications. Needling and
5-fluorouracil (5-FU) injections were allowed only during the first six months
postoperatively; additional needling or 5-FU injections were considered as
failure. Mean post-operative IOP at 12 and 24 months also was recorded.
MAIN RESULTS: The review included six trials with a total of 361 participants.
Two studies were conducted in America and one each in Germany, Greece, India, and
Saudi Arabia. The participants of four trials had open-angle glaucoma; one study 
included participants with primary open-angle or primary closed-angle glaucoma,
and one study did not specify the type of glaucoma. Three studies used a combined
procedure (phacotrabeculectomy). Trabeculectomy with mitomycin C (MMC) was
performed in four studies, and trabeculectomy with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was
performed in only one study.None of the included trials reported trabeculectomy
failure at 24 months. Only one trial reported the failure rate of trabeculectomy 
as a late complication. Failure was higher among participants randomised to the
limbal-based surgery: 1/50 eyes failed trabeculectomy in the fornix group
compared with 3/50 in the limbal group (risk ratio (RR) 0.33, 95% confidence
interval (95% CI) 0.04 to 3.10); therefore we are very uncertain as to the
relative effect of the two procedures on failure rate.Four studies including 252 
participants provided measures of mean IOP at 12 months. In the fornix-based
surgeries, mean IOP ranged from 12.5 to 15.5 mmHg and similar results were noted 
in limbal-based surgeries with mean IOP ranging from 11.7 to 15.1 mmHg without
significant difference. Mean difference was 0.44 mmHg (95% CI -0.45 to 1.33) and 
0.86 mmHg, (95% CI -0.52 to 2.24) at 12 and 24 months of follow-up, respectively.
Neither of these pooled analyses showed a statistically significant difference in
IOP between groups (moderate quality of evidence).One trial reported number of
anti-glaucoma medications at 24 months of follow-up with no difference noted
between surgical groups. However, three trials reported the mean number of
anti-glaucoma medications at 12 months of follow-up without significant
difference in the mean number of postoperative IOP-lowering medications between
the two surgical techniques. Mean difference was 0.02, (95% CI -0.15 to 0.19) at 
12 months of follow-up (high quality of evidence).Because of the small numbers of
events and total participants, the risk of many reported adverse events were
uncertain and those that were found to be statistically significant may have been
due to chance.For risk of bias assessment: although all six trials were
randomised selection bias was mostly unclear, with unclear random sequence
generation in four of the six studies and unclear allocation concealment in five 
of the six studies. Attrition bias was encountered in only one trial which also
suffered from reporting bias. All other trials had an unclear risk of reporting
bias as there was no access to study protocols. All included trials were judged
to have high risk of detection bias due to lack of masking of the outcomes.
Trabeculectomy is quite a standard procedure and unlikely to induce bias due to
surgeon 'performance', hence performance bias was not evaluated.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The main result of this review was that there was
uncertainty as to the difference between fornix- and limbal-based trabeculectomy 
surgeries due to the small number of events and confidence intervals that cross
the null. This also applied to postoperative complications, but without any
impact on long-term failure rate between the two surgical techniques.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009380.pub2 
PMCID: PMC4734381
PMID: 26599668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2015 Dec;38(10):983-95. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2015.08.006. Epub 2015
Nov 17.

[Vascular factors in glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Mottet B(1), Aptel F(2), Geiser M(3), Romanet JP(1), Chiquet C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Université Joseph-Fourier - Grenoble 1, 38041 Grenoble, France; Clinique
universitaire d'ophtalmologie, CHU de Grenoble, 38043 Grenoble, France.
(2)Université Joseph-Fourier - Grenoble 1, 38041 Grenoble, France; Clinique
universitaire d'ophtalmologie, CHU de Grenoble, 38043 Grenoble, France; Inserm
U1042, hypoxie et physiopathologie, 38043 Grenoble cedex 9, France.
(3)Département d'optique, HES-SO, haute école valaisanne, Sion, Suisse.
(4)Université Joseph-Fourier - Grenoble 1, 38041 Grenoble, France; Clinique
universitaire d'ophtalmologie, CHU de Grenoble, 38043 Grenoble, France; Inserm
U1042, hypoxie et physiopathologie, 38043 Grenoble cedex 9, France. Electronic
address: cchiquet@chu-grenoble.fr.

The exact pathophysiology of glaucoma is not fully understood. Understanding of
the vascular pathophysiology of glaucoma requires: knowing the techniques for
measuring ocular blood flow and characterizing the topography of vascular disease
and the mechanisms involved in this neuropathy. A decreased mean ocular perfusion
pressure and a loss of vascular autoregulation are implicated in glaucomatous
disease. Early decrease in ocular blood flow has been identified in primary
open-angle glaucoma and normal pressure glaucoma, contributing to the progression
of optic neuropathy. The vascular damage associated with glaucoma is present in
various vascular territories within the eye (from the ophthalmic artery to the
retina) and is characterized by a decrease in basal blood flow associated with a 
dysfunction of vasoregulation.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2015.08.006 
PMID: 26597554  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


69. J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 2015 Nov-Dec;52(6):377-82. doi:
10.3928/01913913-20151014-51.

Characteristics of Children With Primary Congenital Glaucoma Receiving
Trabeculotomy and Goniotomy.

Mukkamala L, Fechtner R, Holland B, Khouri AS.

PURPOSE: To describe the groups of patients who received trabeculotomy or
goniotomy for the treatment of primary congenital glaucoma (PCG) regarding age at
treatment, intraocular pressure (IOP) outcome, and medication burden.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of patients with PCG seen at Rutgers New
Jersey Medical School, Newark, New Jersey, from 1998 to 2012 was conducted.
Inclusion criteria were patients who received trabeculotomy or goniotomy with at 
least 9 months of follow-up. Presenting examination, surgical intervention, IOP, 
and number of medications at 1 and 2 years postoperatively were recorded.
Absolute and qualified success, defined as IOP greater than 5 and less than 21 mm
Hg without and with medications, respectively, was determined.
RESULTS: Fifty eyes of 29 patients were diagnosed as having PCG. Of those, 25
eyes received trabeculotomy or goniotomy, with 19 fulfilling inclusion criteria. 
Average age at the time of trabeculotomy was 8 months versus 21 months for
patients undergoing goniotomy. Mean IOP was significantly reduced (P < .001) for 
both trabeculotomy and goniotomy by 29.5% at 1 year and 33.3% at 2 years. There
was no significant difference in IOP control between trabeculotomy and goniotomy 
groups. Patients in the goniotomy group were treated with significantly more
medications before and after surgery compared to patients receiving trabeculotomy
(P < .01), resulting in a greater rate of absolute success in trabeculotomy at 1 
and 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with PCG who underwent trabeculotomy had higher IOP and
were treated at an earlier age than those who had goniotomy. Both effectively
lowered IOP up to 2 years with greater medication burden in patients receiving
goniotomy.

Copyright 2015, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01913913-20151014-51 
PMID: 26584751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Int J Equity Health. 2015 Nov 18;14:135. doi: 10.1186/s12939-015-0213-8.

Eye Care Quality and Accessibility Improvement in the Community (EQUALITY) for
adults at risk for glaucoma: study rationale and design.

Owsley C(1), Rhodes LA(2), McGwin G Jr(3,)(4), Mennemeyer ST(5), Bregantini M(6),
Patel N(7), Wiley DM(8), LaRussa F(9), Box D(10), Saaddine J(11), Crews JE(12),
Girkin CA(13).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, University of Alabama at
Birmingham, 700 S. 18th St, Birmingham, AL, 35294-0009, USA. owsley@uab.edu.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, University of Alabama at
Birmingham, 700 S. 18th St, Birmingham, AL, 35294-0009, USA. rhodesl@uab.edu.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, University of Alabama at
Birmingham, 700 S. 18th St, Birmingham, AL, 35294-0009, USA. mcgwin@uab.edu.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, 1655 University Blvd, Birmingham, AL, 35294-0022, USA.
mcgwin@uab.edu. (5)Department of Health Care Organization and Policy, School of
Public Health, 1655 University Blvd, Birmingham, 35294-0022, USA.
smenneme@uab.edu. (6)Prevent Blindness, 211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1700,
Chicago, Il, 60606, USA. mbregantini@preventblindness.org. (7)Prevent Blindness, 
211 West Wacker Drive, Suite 1700, Chicago, Il, 60606, USA.
npatel@preventblindness.org. (8)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, 700 S. 18th St, Birmingham, AL, 35294-0009, 
USA. mantez@uab.edu. (9)Walmart Vision Center #1481, Birmingham, AL, 35209, USA. 
frank.larussa@yahoo.com. (10)Walmart Vision Center #715 and Global Eye Care PC,
Tuscaloosa, AL, 35405, USA. danbox@aol.com. (11)Vision Health Initiative,
Division of Diabetes Translation, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Atlanta, GA, 30341-3727, USA. zna2@cdc.gov. (12)Vision Health Initiative,
Division of Diabetes Translation, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Atlanta, GA, 30341-3727, USA. wzc0@cdc.gov. (13)Department of Ophthalmology,
School of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 700 S. 18th St,
Birmingham, AL, 35294-0009, USA. cgirkin@uab.edu.

BACKGROUND: Primary open angle glaucoma is a chronic, progressive eye disease
that is the leading cause of blindness among African Americans. Glaucoma
progresses more rapidly and appears about 10 years earlier in African Americans
as compared to whites. African Americans are also less likely to receive
comprehensive eye care when glaucoma could be detected before irreversible
blindness. Screening and follow-up protocols for managing glaucoma recommended by
eye-care professional organizations are often not followed by primary eye-care
providers, both ophthalmologists and optometrists. There is a pressing need to
improve both the accessibility and quality of glaucoma care for African
Americans. Telemedicine may be an effective solution for improving management and
diagnosis of glaucoma because it depends on ocular imaging and tests that can be 
electronically transmitted to remote reading centers where tertiary care
specialists can examine the results. We describe the Eye Care Quality and
Accessibility Improvement in the Community project (EQUALITY), set to evaluate a 
teleglaucoma program deployed in retail-based primary eye care practices serving 
communities with a large percentage of African Americans.
METHODS/DESIGN: We conducted an observational, 1-year prospective study based in 
two Walmart Vision Centers in Alabama staffed by primary care optometrists.
EQUALITY focuses on new or existing adult patients who are at-risk for glaucoma
or already diagnosed with glaucoma. Patients receive dilated comprehensive
examinations and diagnostic testing for glaucoma, followed by the optometrist's
diagnosis and a preliminary management plan. Results are transmitted to a
glaucoma reading center where ophthalmologists who completed fellowship training 
in glaucoma review results and provide feedback to the optometrist, who manages
the care of the patient. Patients also receive eye health education about
glaucoma and comprehensive eye care. Research questions include diagnostic and
management agreement between providers, the impact of eye health education on
patients' knowledge and adherence to follow-up and medication, patient
satisfaction, program cost-effectiveness, and EQUALITY's impact on Walmart
pharmacy prescription rates.
DISCUSSION: As eye-care delivery systems in the US strive to improve quality
while reducing costs, telemedicine programs including teleglaucoma initiatives
such as EQUALITY could contribute toward reaching this goal, particularly among
underserved populations at-risk for chronic blinding diseases.

DOI: 10.1186/s12939-015-0213-8 
PMCID: PMC4652429
PMID: 26582103  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Retina. 2016 Jun;36(6):1076-80. doi: 10.1097/IAE.0000000000000841.

LONG-TERM RESULTS OF COMBINED AB INTERNO TRABECULOTOMY (TRABECTOME) AND
SMALL-GAUGE PARS PLANA VITRECTOMY.

Toussaint B(1), Petersen MR, Sisk RA, Riemann CD, Miller DM, Foster RE, Shaikh
AH, Khatana AH, Zink J, Greff LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati Eye
Institute, Cincinnati, Ohio.

PURPOSE: To report outcomes of patients who have undergone combined Trabectome
and pars plana vitrectomy.
METHODS: Institutional Review Board-approved retrospective chart review of
patients seen at the Cincinnati Eye Institute before January 2014 undergoing
combined Trabectome and pars plana vitrectomy for uncontrolled glaucoma and
visually significant retina pathology. Charts were reviewed to identify changes
in intraocular pressure, visual acuity, and change in glaucoma medication
requirement up to 1 year after surgery.
RESULTS: Four patients met the inclusion criteria with 12-month follow-up, and
two of the patients were male. All patients underwent 25-gauge pars plana
vitrectomy and Trabectome surgery. Mean preoperative LogMAR visual acuity was
0.39 (20/49) and 12-month LogMAR visual acuity was 0.21 (20/32) (P = 0.06). Mean 
preoperative intraocular pressure was 17 mmHg and mean preoperative glaucoma
medication requirement was 2.5 topical medications. Twelve-month mean intraocular
pressure was 12.8 mmHg (P = 0.07), and mean topical glaucoma medication
requirement was 2.3 medications (P = 0.39). All patients were off steroids and
anti-inflammatories at the final visit. One patient developed a hyphema requiring
anterior chamber washout at 1 week. No other complications occurred.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that combined Trabectome and pars plana
vitrectomy seems effective in the management of glaucoma in patients with
visually significant retina pathology.

DOI: 10.1097/IAE.0000000000000841 
PMID: 26562562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:742792. doi: 10.1155/2015/742792. Epub 2015 Oct 19.

Current Approach in the Diagnosis and Management of Uveitic Glaucoma.

Muñoz-Negrete FJ(1), Moreno-Montañés J(2), Hernández-Martínez P(3), Rebolleda
G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Service, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Instituto Ramón y
Cajal de Investigaciones Sanitarias (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain ; Universidad de
Alcalá, Alcalá de Henares, Spain ; Ocular Pathology National Net (OFTARED) of the
Institute of Health Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. (2)Ocular Pathology National Net
(OFTARED) of the Institute of Health Carlos III, Madrid, Spain ; Department of
Ophthalmology, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. (3)Ophthalmology 
Service, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Instituto Ramón y Cajal de
Investigaciones Sanitarias (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain.

Uveitic glaucoma (UG) typically is associated with very high intraocular pressure
(IOP) and more intense optic nerve damage than other glaucoma types. This
secondary glaucoma requires an early diagnosis and adequate management of both
uveitis and glaucoma. It is mandatory to identify the mechanisms of IOP elevation
that in many eyes have multiple combined mechanisms. Management of these patients
commonly requires an interdisciplinary approach that includes a glaucoma
specialist and rheumatologist to control the inflammation and IOP. Glaucoma
surgery is required early in these patients due to the high IOP usually present
and is less successful than in primary open-angle glaucoma. Recurrent uveitic
episodes, multiple mechanism, and the complications associated with uveitis make 
surgical management of UG challenging. In this review, the management and
treatment of UG are updated to clarify the pathogenesis and prevent optic nerve
damage.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/742792 
PMCID: PMC4628996
PMID: 26558280  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:827516. doi: 10.1155/2015/827516. Epub 2015 Oct 18.

The Association between Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma and Blood Pressure: Two
Aspects of Hypertension and Hypotension.

Chung HJ(1), Hwang HB(2), Lee NY(2).

Author information: 
(1)HanGil Eye Hospital, Incheon 21388, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Incheon St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic
University of Korea, Seoul 403-720, Republic of Korea.

Glaucoma is the second leading cause of blindness worldwide. Although the
mechanism of the development of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is not fully
understood, elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) is considered the most important 
risk factor. Several vascular factors have also been identified as risk factors
and can lead to hypoperfusion of the optic nerve head and thus may play an
important role in the pathogenesis and progression of POAG. The results of the
present study suggest that both high and low blood pressure (BP) are associated
with an increased risk of POAG based on a comprehensive literature review.
Elevated BP is associated with elevated IOP, leading to increased risk of
glaucoma, but excessive BP lowering in glaucoma patients may cause a drop in
ocular perfusion pressure (OPP) and subsequent ischemic injury. The relationship 
between IOP, OPP, and BP suggests that the relationship between BP and glaucoma
progression is U-shaped.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/827516 
PMCID: PMC4628713
PMID: 26557702  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:141905. doi: 10.1155/2015/141905. Epub 2015 Oct 18.

Systemic and Ocular Hemodynamic Risk Factors in Glaucoma.

Choi J(1), Kook MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Central Seoul Eye Center, 224 Ichon-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul 04427, Republic of
Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, Asan Medical Center, 
Seoul 05505, Republic of Korea.

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a multifactorial disease characterized by
progressive retinal ganglion cell death and visual field loss. It is known that
alterations in intraocular pressure (IOP), blood pressure (BP), and ocular
perfusion pressure (OPP) can play a significant role in the pathogenesis of the
disease. Impaired autoregulatory capacity of ocular blood vessels may render
tissues vulnerable to OPP changes and potentially harmful tissue
ischemia-reperfusion damage. Vascular risk factors should be considered more
important in a subgroup of patients with POAG, and especially in patients with
normal tension glaucoma (NTG) with evidence of unphysiological BP response. For
example, reduction of BP during the nighttime has an influence on OPP, and
increased circadian OPP fluctuation, which might stand for unstable ocular blood 
flow, has been found to be the consistent risk factor for NTG development and
progression. Central visual field may be affected more severely than peripheral
visual field in NTG patients with higher 24-hour fluctuation of OPP. This review 
will discuss the current understanding of allegedly major systemic and ocular
hemodynamic risk factors for glaucoma including systemic hypertension, arterial
stiffness, antihypertensive medication, exaggerated nocturnal hypotension, OPP,
and autonomic dysregulation.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/141905 
PMCID: PMC4628774
PMID: 26557650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Ophthalmology. 2016 Jan;123(1):129-40. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2015.09.005. Epub
2015 Oct 31.

Comparative Effectiveness of First-Line Medications for Primary Open-Angle
Glaucoma: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-analysis.

Li T(1), Lindsley K(2), Rouse B(3), Hong H(4), Shi Q(3), Friedman DS(5), Wormald 
R(6), Dickersin K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Center for Clinical Trials and Evidence Synthesis,
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland. Electronic 
address: tli19@jhu.edu. (2)Department of Epidemiology, Center for Clinical Trials
and Evidence Synthesis, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health,
Baltimore, Maryland. (3)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland. (4)Department of Mental Health,
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland. (5)The Dana
Center for Preventive Ophthalmology, Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins School
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. (6)Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group, London
School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

TOPIC: Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a highly prevalent condition
worldwide and the most common cause of irreversible sight loss. The objective is 
to assess the comparative effectiveness of first-line medical treatments in
patients with POAG or ocular hypertension through a systematic review and network
meta-analysis, and to provide relative rankings of these treatments.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Treatment for POAG currently relies completely on lowering
the intraocular pressure (IOP). Although topical drops, lasers, and surgeries can
be considered in the initial treatment of glaucoma, most patients elect to start 
treatment with eye drops.
METHODS: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compared a single
active topical medication with no treatment/placebo or another single topical
medication. We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Food and Drug
Administration's website. Two individuals independently assessed trial
eligibility, abstracted data, and assessed the risk of bias. We performed
Bayesian network meta-analyses.
RESULTS: We included 114 RCTs with data from 20 275 participants. The overall
risk of bias of the included trials is mixed. The mean reductions (95% credible
intervals) in IOP in millimeters of mercury at 3 months ordered from the most to 
least effective drugs were as follows: bimatoprost 5.61 (4.94; 6.29), latanoprost
4.85 (4.24; 5.46), travoprost 4.83 (4.12; 5.54), levobunolol 4.51 (3.85; 5.24),
tafluprost 4.37 (2.94; 5.83), timolol 3.70 (3.16; 4.24), brimonidine 3.59 (2.89; 
4.29), carteolol 3.44 (2.42; 4.46), levobetaxolol 2.56 (1.52; 3.62),
apraclonidine 2.52 (0.94; 4.11), dorzolamide 2.49 (1.85; 3.13), brinzolamide 2.42
(1.62; 3.23), betaxolol 2.24 (1.59; 2.88), and unoprostone 1.91 (1.15; 2.67).
CONCLUSIONS: All active first-line drugs are effective compared with placebo in
reducing IOP at 3 months. Bimatoprost, latanoprost, and travoprost are among the 
most efficacious drugs, although the within-class differences were small and may 
not be clinically meaningful. All factors, including adverse effects, patient
preferences, and cost, should be considered in selecting a drug for a given
patient.

Copyright © 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2015.09.005 
PMCID: PMC4695285
PMID: 26526633  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Prog Brain Res. 2015;221:233-41. doi: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.06.007. Epub 2015 Jul
27.

Exfoliative glaucoma: new evidence in the pathogenesis and treatment.

Miglior S(1), Bertuzzi F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Policlinico di Monza Hospital, University of
Milano-Bicocca, Monza, Italy. Electronic address: smiglior@yahoo.com.
(2)Ophthalmology Department, Policlinico di Monza Hospital, University of
Milano-Bicocca, Monza, Italy.

Exfoliation or pseudoexfoliation syndrome (PXF) is an age-related ocular and
systemic disease in which abnormal extracellular material is produced and
accumulates in many tissues. PXF is the most common identifiable cause of
open-angle glaucoma (OAG). PXFG is a particularly aggressive type of OAG, which
runs with a faster rate of progression and poorer response to medical therapy
than primary OAG (POAG). The prevalence of the condition shows huge variations
among different population, Scandinavian and Mediterranean race being the most
affected. Many genetics and environmental factors are involved in the
pathogenesis and remarkable progresses in understanding the involved factors have
been achieved in the past years. Population-based studies have identified
mutations on the lysil-oxidase-like 1(LOXL1) gene as a risk factor for PXFS.
Environmental and behavioral factors such as latitude of residence, caffeine
intake, and vitamins deficiency are under investigation for a possible
involvement in determining the disease in genetically predisposed individuals.
Treatment options are similar to those recommended for POAG. Exfoliation syndrome
predisposes to capsular rupture, zonular dehiscence, and vitreous loss during
cataract extraction. Laser trabeculoplasty has been demonstrated to show good
clinical outcomes in PXF patients. A review of the current literature and
scientific evidences on pathogenesis and treatment is presented.

© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.06.007 
PMID: 26518081  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Prog Brain Res. 2015;221:1-32. doi: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.05.006. Epub 2015 Sep 9.

Molecular biomarkers in primary open-angle glaucoma: from noninvasive to
invasive.

Agnifili L(1), Pieragostino D(2), Mastropasqua A(3), Fasanella V(3), Brescia
L(3), Tosi GM(4), Sacchetta P(2), Mastropasqua L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Aging Science, Ophthalmology Clinic, University G. 
d'Annunzio of Chieti-Pescara, Chieti, Italy. Electronic address:
l.agnifili@unich.it. (2)Department of Medical, Oral and Biotechnological
Sciences, University "G. d'Annunzio" of Chieti-Pescara, Chieti, Italy; Analytical
Biochemistry and Proteomics Unit, Research Centre on Aging (Ce.S.I.), University 
"G. d'Annunzio" of Chieti-Pescara, Chieti, Italy. (3)Department of Medicine and
Aging Science, Ophthalmology Clinic, University G. d'Annunzio of Chieti-Pescara, 
Chieti, Italy. (4)Ophthalmology Section, Department of Medicine, Surgery and
Neuroscience, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.

Glaucoma, the first cause of irreversible blindness worldwide, is a
neurodegenerative disease characterized by the progressive loss of retinal
ganglion cells. There are different subtypes of glaucoma, all expression of a
common optic neuropathy; primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is the most diffuse
subtype in western countries. To date, unfortunately, several questions still
remain unsolved in the glaucoma management, such as the availability of powerful 
methods for screening high-risk populations, early diagnosis, timely detection of
damage progression, and prediction of response to therapy. Over the last years,
biomarkers have gained immense scientific and clinical interest to solve these
issues, with countless molecules that have been candidate as potential
biomarkers. In the present review, we summarize the current knowledge about the
most robust molecular biomarkers proposed in POAG, distinguishing noninvasive
from minimally invasive, and invasive biomarkers, according to the procedure
adopted to collect fluid samples.

© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.05.006 
PMID: 26518070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


78. N C Med J. 2015 Sep-Oct;76(4):211-8. doi: 10.18043/ncm.76.4.211.

Glaucoma Blindness at a Tertiary Eye Care Center.

Stone JS(1), Muir KW(2), Stinnett SS(3), Rosdahl JA(4).

Author information: 
(1)medical student, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, California.
(2)associate professor of ophthalmology, Duke University; director of clinical
research, Durham Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.
(3)associate professor of biostatistics, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina.
(4)assistant professor of ophthalmology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 
jullia.rosdahl@duke.edu.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is an important cause of irreversible blindness. This study 
describes the characteristics of a large, diverse group of glaucoma patients and 
evaluates associations between demographic and clinical characteristics and
blindness.
METHODS: Data were gathered via retrospective chart review of patients (N =
1,454) who were seen between July 2007 and July 2010 by glaucoma service
providers at Duke Eye Center. Visual acuity and visual field criteria were used
to determine whether patients met the criteria for legal blindness. Descriptive
and comparative statistical analyses were performed on the glaucoma patients who 
were not blind (n = 1,258) and those who were blind (n = 196). A subgroup
analysis of only those patients with primary open-angle glaucoma was also
performed.
RESULTS: In this tertiary care population, 13% (n = 196) of glaucoma patients met
criteria for legal blindness, nearly one-half of whom (n = 94) were blind from
glaucoma, and another one-third of whom (n = 69) had glaucoma-related blindness. 
The most common glaucoma diagnosis at all levels of vision was primary open-angle
glaucoma. A larger proportion of black patients compared with white patients
demonstrated vision loss; the odds ratio (OR) for blindness was 2.25 (95% CI,
1.6-3.2) for black patients compared with white patients. The use of systemic
antihypertensive medications was higher among patients who were blind compared
with patients who were not blind (OR = 2.1; 95% CI, 1.4-3.1). A subgroup analysis
including only patients with primary open-angle glaucoma showed similar results
for both black race and use of systemic antihypertensive medications. The
relationship between use of systemic antihypertensive medications and blindness
was not different between black patients and white patients (interaction P =
.268).
LIMITATIONS: Data were based on chart review, and associations may be confounded 
by unmeasured factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Treated systemic hypertension may be correlated with blindness, and 
the cause cannot be explained solely by race. In addition, this study
demonstrated that there is continued disparity between black patients and white
patients with regards to blindness from glaucoma.

©2015 by the North Carolina Institute of Medicine and The Duke Endowment. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.18043/ncm.76.4.211 
PMCID: PMC4792093
PMID: 26509509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Maturitas. 2016 Jan;83:19-26. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2015.10.005. Epub 2015 Oct
23.

Age-related eye disease and gender.

Zetterberg M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience and Rehabilitation/Ophthalmology,
Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at University
of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden; Department of Ophthalmology at Sahlgrenska
University Hospital, Mölndal, Sweden. Electronic address:
madeleine.zetterberg@gu.se.

Worldwide, the prevalence of moderate to severe visual impairment and blindness
is 285 millions, with 65% of visually impaired and 82% of all blind people being 
50 years and older. Meta-analyses have shown that two out of three blind people
are women, a gender discrepancy that holds true for both developed and developing
countries. Cataract accounts for more than half of all blindness globally and
gender inequity in access to cataract surgery is the major cause of the higher
prevalence of blindness in women. In addition to gender differences in cataract
surgical coverage, population-based studies on the prevalence of lens opacities
indicate that women have a higher risk of developing cataract. Laboratory as well
as epidemiologic studies suggest that estrogen may confer antioxidative
protection against cataractogenesis, but the withdrawal effect of estrogen in
menopause leads to increased risk of cataract in women. For the other major
age-related eye diseases; glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and
diabetic retinopathy, data are inconclusive. Due to anatomic factors, angle
closure glaucoma is more common in women, whereas the dominating glaucoma type;
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), is more prevalent in men. Diabetic
retinopathy also has a male predominance and vascular/circulatory factors have
been implied both in diabetic retinopathy and in POAG. For AMD, data on gender
differences are conflicting although some studies indicate increased prevalence
of drusen and neovascular AMD in women. To conclude, both biologic and
socioeconomic factors must be considered when investigating causes of gender
differences in the prevalence of age-related eye disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2015.10.005 
PMID: 26508081  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Prog Brain Res. 2015;220:127-53. doi: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.06.001. Epub 2015 Sep
8.

Oxidative stress and mitochondrial failure in the pathogenesis of glaucoma
neurodegeneration.

Pinazo-Durán MD(1), Zanón-Moreno V(2), Gallego-Pinazo R(3), García-Medina JJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Research Unit "Santiago Grisolía", University Hospital Dr. Peset,
Valencia, Spain; Department of Surgery/Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine and
Odontology, University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain. Electronic address:
dolores.pinazo@uv.es. (2)Ophthalmic Research Unit "Santiago Grisolía", University
Hospital Dr. Peset, Valencia, Spain; Department of Surgery/Ophthalmology, Faculty
of Medicine and Odontology, University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
(3)Ophthalmic Research Unit "Santiago Grisolía", University Hospital Dr. Peset,
Valencia, Spain; Department of Ophthalmology, University and Polytechnic Hospital
la Fe, Valencia, Spain. (4)Ophthalmic Research Unit "Santiago Grisolía",
University Hospital Dr. Peset, Valencia, Spain; Department of Ophthalmology,
University Hospital Reina Sofia, Murcia, Spain; Department of Ophthalmology and
Optometry, University of Murcia, Murcia, Spain.

This review focuses on oxidative stress and mitochondrial failure for
understanding mechanisms of optic nerve damage in primary open-angle glaucoma.
The chapter shows scientific evidence for the role of mitochondrial disbalance
and reactive oxygen species in glaucoma neurodegeneration. Mitochondria regulate 
important cellular functions including reactive oxygen species generation and
apoptosis. Mitochondrial alterations result from a wide variety of damaging
sources. Reactive oxygen species formed by the mitochondria can act as signaling 
molecules, inducing lipid peroxidation and/or excitotoxicity with the result of
cell lesion and death. Antioxidants may help to counteract oxidative stress and
to promote neuroprotection. We provide information that may lead to a new way for
diagnosing and treating glaucoma patients.

© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.06.001 
PMID: 26497788  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Prog Brain Res. 2015;220:107-26. doi: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.04.006. Epub 2015 Jul
2.

Advances in glaucoma genetics.

Sakurada Y(1), Mabuchi F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
Chuo, Yamanashi, Japan. Electronic address: sakurada@yamanashi.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
Chuo, Yamanashi, Japan.

Glaucoma is presumed to be a complex progressive neurodegenerative disorder
caused by genetic and environmental factors, and it is also one of the leading
causes of irreversible blindness worldwide. Glaucoma is divided into two major
forms: primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and primary angle-closure glaucoma
(PACG). Familial linkage studies for POAG have been performed and identified
causative POAG disease genes (e.g., MYOC, OPTN, and WDR36). Recent genome-wide
association studies revealed a large number of susceptibility gene variants
associated with both POAG (e.g., CDKN2BAS, CAV1/CAV2, and ATOH7) and PACG (e.g., 
PLEKHA7 and COL11A1 PCMTD1-ST18). In POAG, these genes were expressed in ocular
tissues including retinal ganglion cells, ciliary body, trabecular meshwork, and 
the optic nerve head. A further functional analysis of these genes would provide 
the precise mechanism underlying glaucoma, including POAG and PACG. It might be
possible to assess the personal future risk for glaucoma and facilitate
therapeutic strategies through genetic studies.

© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2015.04.006 
PMID: 26497787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Vet Clin North Am Small Anim Pract. 2015 Nov;45(6):1127-57, v. doi:
10.1016/j.cvsm.2015.06.002.

Definition, Classification, and Pathophysiology of Canine Glaucoma.

Pizzirani S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology, Department of Clinical Science, Cummings School of Veterinary
Medicine, Tufts University, 200 Westboro Road, North Grafton, MA 01536, USA.
Electronic address: stefano.pizzirani@tufts.edu.

Glaucoma is a common ocular condition in humans and dogs leading to optic nerve
degeneration and irreversible blindness. Primary glaucoma is a group of
spontaneous heterogeneous diseases. Multiple factors are involved in its
pathogenesis and these factors vary across human ethnic groups and canine breeds,
so the clinical phenotypes are numerous and their classification can be
challenging and remain superficial. Aging and oxidative stress are major triggers
for the manifestation of disease. Multiple, intertwined inflammatory and
biochemical cascades eventually alter cellular and extracellular physiology in
the optic nerve and trabecular meshwork and lead to vision loss.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cvsm.2015.06.002 
PMID: 26456751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Optom Vis Sci. 2015 Nov;92(11):e394-403. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000000701.

Atypical Features of Fuchs Uveitis Syndrome.

Phu J(1), Trinh WH, Chau-Vo JS, Nivison-Smith L, Kalloniatis M.

Author information: 
(1)*BOptom (Hons), MPH, FAAO †BOptom, OD ‡MBBS(Hons), FRANZCO §BSc(Hons), PhD
∥MScOptom, PhD, FAAO Centre for Eye Health, University of New South Wales,
Kensington, New South Wales, Australia (JP, LN-S, MK); and School of Optometry
and Vision Science, University of New South Wales, Kensington, New South Wales,
Australia (JP, WHT, LN-S, MK).

PURPOSE: To review the atypical features of Fuchs uveitis syndrome.
METHODS: A retrospective review of records of a private optometric practice of
patients with diagnosed Fuchs uveitis syndrome was performed.
RESULTS: Three atypical cases of Fuchs uveitis syndrome are presented. Patient 1 
is a patient who required the use of topical corticosteroids to alleviate acute
symptoms of uveitis. Patient 2 is a patient who presented at a very young age
with aggressive Fuchs uveitis and who subsequently developed secondary open-angle
glaucoma. Patient 3 presented with primary open-angle glaucoma, was treated with 
topical ocular hypotensive medications, but then subsequently presented with
manifest Fuchs uveitis syndrome in the affected eye. Patient 3 was treated with
topical prostaglandin analogs among other medical therapies.
CONCLUSIONS: Fuchs uveitis syndrome has a diverse clinical spectrum. It is a
syndrome that is diagnosed using a constellation of clinical signs. However, some
cases may present atypically and clinicians should be prepared to use less
conventional therapies such as topical corticosteroids and prostaglandin analogs 
in the treatment of acute uveitic attacks and secondary open-angle glaucoma,
respectively.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000000701 
PMID: 26390349  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2015 Nov;38(9):809-14. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2015.02.010. Epub 2015 
Sep 19.

[Socioeconomic aspects of the management of primary open angle glaucoma in
Benin].

[Article in French]

Sounouvou I(1), Assavedo AR(2), Alamou S(2), Kpomalegni E(2), Amoussouga AP(2),
Tchabi S(2), Doutetien C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Clinique ophtalmologique, centre national hospitalier universitaire
Hubert-Koutoukou-Maga (CNHU-HKM), 01 BP 386, Cotonou, Bénin. Electronic address: 
igsounouvou@yahoo.fr. (2)Clinique ophtalmologique, centre national hospitalier
universitaire Hubert-Koutoukou-Maga (CNHU-HKM), 01 BP 386, Cotonou, Bénin.

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of our study is to present the socioeconomic aspects of
the management of primary open angle glaucoma in Benin.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study was a multicentric descriptive, record review
from January 1st, 2011 to June 30th, 2013 and prospective from May 1st to July
31st, 2013. It included patients over 15 years of age, and treated for a
diagnosis of primary open angle glaucoma during the study period.
RESULTS: Of 15,592 patients, 227 were diagnosed with glaucoma, for a 1.5%
hospital prevalence with male predominance (64%). Medical treatment was the rule,
with an average duration of 7.4 ± 7.4 months. A total of 10.6% of the patients
were followed regularly. The average monthly cost of medications was 17.8 ± 10.8 
euros. That of the consultations and diagnostic tests was an average of 79.5 ±
59.9 euros. The average cost of transportation to each visit was 1.6 euros.
Stable glaucoma was more costly. A total of 17.6% of the patients were
accompanied to visits for which the waiting time was always longer than one hour.
The monthly average income of the patients was 187.7 euros. Loss of income
associated with waiting was not evaluated. A total of 72.7% of the patients were 
self-insured, corresponding to 58.3% of their average monthly income.
DISCUSSION: Patients cannot logically afford their medication. Practitioners
should rely more on lower-cost surgical treatments.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2015.02.010 
PMID: 26386514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Med Devices (Auckl). 2015 Sep 2;8:381-8. doi: 10.2147/MDER.S63350. eCollection
2015.

EX-PRESS Glaucoma Filtration Device: efficacy, safety, and predictability.

Chan JE(1), Netland PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Virginia School of Medicine,
Charlottesville, VA, USA.

Trabeculectomy has been the traditional primary surgical therapy for open-angle
glaucoma. While trabeculectomy is effective in lowering intraocular pressure,
complications associated with the procedure have motivated the development of
alternative techniques and devices, including the EX-PRESS Glaucoma Filtration
Device. This review describes the efficacy, safety, complication rates, and
potential advantages and disadvantages of the EX-PRESS Glaucoma Filtration
Device. EX-PRESS implantation is technically simpler compared with that of
trabeculectomy, with fewer surgical steps. Vision recovery has been more rapid
after EX-PRESS implantation compared with trabeculectomy. Intraocular pressure
variation is lower during the early postoperative period, indicating a more
predictable procedure. While efficacy of the EX-PRESS implant has been comparable
to trabeculectomy, postoperative complications appear less common after EX-PRESS 
implantation compared with trabeculectomy. The EX-PRESS Glaucoma Filtration
Device appears to be safe and effective in the surgical management of open-angle 
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.2147/MDER.S63350 
PMCID: PMC4562650
PMID: 26366105  [PubMed]


86. Prim Care. 2015 Sep;42(3):437-49. doi: 10.1016/j.pop.2015.05.008. Epub 2015 Jul
29.

Glaucoma.

Mantravadi AV(1), Vadhar N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Wills Eye Hospital, 840 Walnut Street, Suite 1110,
Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. Electronic address: a_mantravadi@yahoo.com.
(2)Jefferson Medical College of Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA,
USA.

Glaucoma is a multifactorial degenerative optic neuropathy that can progress at
variable rates and afflict all age groups. It is the second leading cause of
blindness worldwide. The disease is commonly divided into 2 major subtypes, open 
angle and angle closure. Diagnosis of glaucoma is made by a combination of
identifying characteristic changes of the optic nerve, functional testing such as
visual fields, and structural imaging of the optic nerve. Management is aimed at 
reducing intraocular pressure (IOP). Patients with known risk factors should be
referred to an ophthalmologist for complete evaluation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pop.2015.05.008 
PMID: 26319348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Eye (Lond). 2015 Oct;29(10):1285-98. doi: 10.1038/eye.2015.160. Epub 2015 Aug 28.

Genes, pathways, and animal models in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Iglesias AI(1,)(2), Springelkamp H(1,)(3), Ramdas WD(3), Klaver CC(1,)(3),
Willemsen R(2), van Duijn CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. (2)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus University Medical
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Erasmus
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Glaucoma is an optic neuropathy characterized by loss of retinal ganglion cells
(RGCs) and consequently visual field loss. It is a complex and heterogeneous
disease in which both environmental and genetic factors play a role. With the
advent of genome-wide association studies (GWASs), the number of loci associated 
with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) have increased greatly. There has also
been major progress in understanding the genes determining the vertical cup-disc 
ratio (VCDR), disc area (DA), cup area (CA), intraocular pressure (IOP), and
central corneal thickness (CCT). In this review, we will update and summarize the
genetic loci associated so far with POAG, VCDR, DA, CA, IOP, and CCT. We will
describe the pathways revealed and supported by genetic association studies,
integrating current knowledge from human and experimental data. Finally, we will 
discuss approaches for functional genomics and clinical translation.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2015.160 
PMCID: PMC4815694
PMID: 26315706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Prog Mol Biol Transl Sci. 2015;134:301-14. doi: 10.1016/bs.pmbts.2015.06.007.
Epub 2015 Jul 9.

Intraocular Pressure and the Mechanisms Involved in Resistance of the Aqueous
Humor Flow in the Trabecular Meshwork Outflow Pathways.

Tamm ER(1), Braunger BM(2), Fuchshofer R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of Regensburg,
Regensburg, Germany. Electronic address: ernst.tamm@vkl.uni-regensburg.de.
(2)Institute of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of Regensburg,
Regensburg, Germany.

Intraocular pressure (IOP), the critical risk factor for glaucoma, is generated
and maintained by the aqueous humor circulation system. Aqueous humor is secreted
from the epithelial layers of the ciliary body and exits the eye through the
trabecular meshwork or the uveoscleral outflow pathways. IOP builds up in
response to a resistance to aqueous humor flow in the trabecular outflow
pathways. The trabecular outflow resistance is localized in the inner wall
region, which comprises the juxtacanalicular connective tissue (JCT) and the
inner wall endothelium of Schlemm's canal (SC). Outflow resistance in this region
is lowered through the relaxation of contractile myofibroblast-like cells in
trabecular meshwork and the adjacent scleral spur, or the contraction of the
ciliary muscle. In primary open-angle glaucoma, the most frequent form of
glaucoma, outflow resistance of the inner wall region is typically higher than
normal. There is evidence that the increase in resistance is related to
characteristic biological changes in the resident cells of the JCT, which more
and more acquire the structural and functional characteristics of contractile
myofibroblasts. The changes involve an augmentation of their actin cytoskeleton
and of their surrounding fibrillary extracellular matrix, which connects to JCT
cells via integrins. This scenario leads to an overall stiffening of the inner
wall region, and is modulated by transforming growth factor-β/connective tissue
growth factor signaling. Essentially comparable changes appear to occur in SC
endothelial cells. Stiffening of JCT and SC cells is very likely a critical
causative factor for the increase in trabecular outflow resistance in POAG.

© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.pmbts.2015.06.007 
PMID: 26310162  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Int J Ophthalmol. 2015 Aug 18;8(4):748-53. doi:
10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2015.04.19. eCollection 2015.

Bleb needling outcomes for failed trabeculectomy blebs in Asian eyes: a 2-year
follow up.

Tsai AS(1), Boey PY(1), Htoon HM(1), Wong TT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye Centre, 11 Third
Hospital Avenue, Singapore 168751, Singapore.

AIM: To describe the outcomes of bleb needling in primary glaucoma in an Asian
tertiary eye centre over a 2y period. To compare the success rates between
primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG).
Lastly, to identify factors associated with success of bleb needling.
METHODS: This was a retrospective review of 227 patients who underwent bleb
needling between June 2009 and June 2011 in Singapore National Eye Centre. The
5-fluorouracil (5-FU) augmented bleb needling was performed either at the slit
lamp or in the operating theatre. Repeat bleb needlings were performed as
necessary. Complete success was defined as maintenance of intraocular pressure
(IOP) ≥6 mm Hg and ≤21 mm Hg, in the absence of further surgery or use of
antiglaucoma medication. Qualified success met the above criteria with or without
use of antiglaucoma medications.
RESULTS: One hundred and seventy-five eyes completed the two-year follow up.
Sixty-nine percent of participants had POAG and 31% had PACG. The mean interval
between filtering surgery and bleb needling was 299.9±616.4d for POAG and
167.1±272.2d for PACG. Mean needling attempts were 1.9±1.4 and 2±1.6 for POAG and
PACG respectively. In general, there was a statistically significant reduction of
IOP ranging from 21.9% to 26.8% from month 1 through to month 24. The complete
success rates at month 6 were 70.0% for POAG and 65.7% for PACG. At month 12,
this decreased to 62.2% for POAG and PACG and at month 24, 57.9% for POAG and
63.0% for PACG respectively. The qualified success rates at month 6 for POAG and 
PACG were 23.8% and 29.9% respectively, 32.2% and 29.2% at month 12, and 34.7%
and 29.6% at month 24. The success rates between POAG and PACG were not
significantly different (P>0.05 for complete and qualified success at months 6,
12 and 24). An increased number of needlings and higher pre-needling IOP were
associated with failure.
CONCLUSION: The 5-FU augmented bleb needling within one year of trabeculectomy in
Asian eyes can provide clinically significant IOP lowering of more than 20% for
2y. POAG and PACG had similar complete success rates (58% and 63% respectively). 
Factors associated with greater risk of procedure failure included increased
number of needlings and higher pre-needling IOP. Asian eyes have a greater
propensity for scarring but bleb needling, if performed in a timely manner can
rescue bleb function.

DOI: 10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2015.04.19 
PMCID: PMC4539629
PMID: 26309874  [PubMed]


90. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Mar;144:38-45. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.08.017. Epub 2015 Aug
22.

Targeting the ER-autophagy system in the trabecular meshwork to treat glaucoma.

Stothert AR(1), Fontaine SN(1), Sabbagh JJ(1), Dickey CA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Byrd Alzheimer's Research Institute,
University of South Florida, Tampa, FL 33613, USA. (2)Department of Molecular
Medicine, Byrd Alzheimer's Research Institute, University of South Florida,
Tampa, FL 33613, USA. Electronic address: cdickey@health.usf.edu.

A major drainage network involved in aqueous humor dynamics is the conventional
outflow pathway, which is gated by the trabecular meshwork (TM). The TM acts as a
molecular sieve, providing resistance to aqueous outflow, which is responsible
for regulating intraocular pressure (IOP). If the TM is damaged, aqueous outflow 
is impaired, IOP increases and glaucoma can manifest. Mutations in the MYOC gene 
cause hereditary primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) by promoting the abnormal
amyloidosis of the myocilin protein in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), leading to
ER stress-induced TM cell death. Myocilin accumulation is observed in
approximately 70-80% of all glaucoma cases suggesting that environmental or other
genetic factors may also promote myocilin toxicity. For example, simply
preventing myocilin glycosylation is sufficient to promote its abnormal
accretion. These myocilin amyloids are unique as there are no other known
pathogenic proteins that accumulate within the ER of TM cells and cause toxicity.
Moreover, this pathogenic accumulation only kills TM cells, despite expression of
this protein in other cell types, suggesting that another modifier exclusive to
the TM participates in the proteotoxicity of myocilin. ER autophagy
(reticulophagy) is one of the pathways essential for myocilin clearance that can 
be impacted dramatically by aging and other environmental factors such as
nutrition. This review will discuss the link between myocilin and autophagy,
evaluating the role of this degradation pathway in glaucoma as well as its
potential as a therapeutic target.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.08.017 
PMCID: PMC4698052 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26302411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Mar;144:54-63. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.08.020. Epub 2015 Aug
21.

Defects in autophagy caused by glaucoma-associated mutations in optineurin.

Sirohi K(1), Swarup G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research, Hyderabad 500 007, India. (2)Centre for Cellular and
Molecular Biology, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Hyderabad 500
007, India. Electronic address: gshyam@ccmb.res.in.

Certain mutations in optineurin (gene OPTN) are associated with primary open
angle glaucoma. Optineurin is ubiquitously expressed but it shows high level of
expression in certain cells and tissues including retinal ganglion cells. It
interacts with many proteins, often acting as an adaptor to link two or more
proteins. These interactions play a crucial role in mediating various functions
of optineurin such as membrane vesicle trafficking, autophagy, signal
transduction etc. Autophagy is basically a quality control mechanism to remove
damaged proteins and organelles through lysosomal degradation. Optineurin was
identified as an autophagy receptor that directly interacts with autophagosomal
protein, LC3, and ubiquitin. These interactions are important for autophagy
receptor function. Autophagy receptors recruit their cargo and take it to
autophagosomes which fuse with lysosomes to form autolysosomes where degradation 
of proteins takes place. Optineurin interacts with a motor protein, myosinVI, and
this interaction is involved in mediating fusion of autophagosomes with
lysosomes. A glaucoma-associated mutant of optineurin, E50K, impairs autophagy as
well as vesicle trafficking, leading to death of retinal cells by apoptosis.
E50K-OPTN-induced block in autophagy is dependent on a GTPase activating protein,
TBC1D17. The E50K mutant also causes other changes in the cells such as altered
interaction with TBK1 protein kinase, aggregate formation, generation of reactive
oxygen species and inhibition of proteasome, which may contribute to
pathogenesis. A polymorphism of optineurin, M98K, associated with glaucoma,
causes enhanced autophagy leading to transferrin receptor degradation and
apoptotic death of retinal cells. M98K-OPTN-induced autophagic cell death is
dependent on Rab12 GTPase. Thus, an optimum level of optineurin-mediated
autophagy is crucial for survival of retinal cells, and impaired autophagy is
likely to contribute to glaucoma pathogenesis. How impaired autophagy caused by
optineurin mutants leads to apoptosis and cell death, is yet to be explored.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.08.020 
PMID: 26302410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Jan;100(1):86-93. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-307223.
Epub 2015 Aug 18.

Global variations and time trends in the prevalence of primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG): a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Kapetanakis VV(1), Chan MP(2), Foster PJ(3), Cook DG(1), Owen CG(1), Rudnicka
AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Population Health Research Institute, St George's, University of London,
London, UK. (2)Division of Genetics and Epidemiology, UCL Institute of
Ophthalmology, London, UK. (3)Division of Genetics and Epidemiology, UCL
Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK NIHR Biomedical Research Centre Moorfields
Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.

Systematic review of published population based surveys to examine the
relationship between primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) prevalence and
demographic factors. A literature search identified population-based studies with
quantitative estimates of POAG prevalence (to October 2014). Multilevel binomial 
logistic regression of log-odds of POAG was used to examine the effect of age and
gender among populations of different geographical and ethnic origins, adjusting 
for study design factors. Eighty-one studies were included (37 countries, 216 214
participants, 5266 POAG cases). Black populations showed highest POAG prevalence,
with 5.2% (95% credible interval (CrI) 3.7%, 7.2%) at 60 years, rising to 12.2%
(95% CrI 8.9% to 16.6%) at 80 years. Increase in POAG prevalence per decade of
age was greatest among Hispanics (2.31, 95% CrI 2.12, 2.52) and White populations
(1.99, 95% CrI 1.86, 2.12), and lowest in East and South Asians (1.48, 95% CrI
1.39, 1.57; 1.56, 95% CrI 1.31, 1.88, respectively). Men were more likely to have
POAG than women (1.30, 95% CrI 1.22, 1.41). Older studies had lower POAG
prevalence, which was related to the inclusion of intraocular pressure in the
glaucoma definition. Studies with visual field data on all participants had a
higher POAG prevalence than those with visual field data on a subset. Globally
57.5 million people (95% CI 46.4 to 73.1 million) were affected by POAG in 2015, 
rising to 65.5 million (95% CrI 52.8, 83.2 million) by 2020. This systematic
review provides the most precise estimates of POAG prevalence and shows omitting 
routine visual field assessment in population surveys may have affected case
ascertainment. Our findings will be useful to future studies and healthcare
planning.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2015-307223 
PMCID: PMC4717368
PMID: 26286821  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


93. PLoS One. 2015 Aug 18;10(8):e0133023. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133023.
eCollection 2015.

Design, Analysis, and Reporting of Crossover Trials for Inclusion in a
Meta-Analysis.

Li T(1), Yu T(1), Hawkins BS(1), Dickersin K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Clinical Trials and Evidence Synthesis, Department of Epidemiology,
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, United
States of America.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the characteristics of the design, analysis, and reporting
of crossover trials for inclusion in a meta-analysis of treatment for primary
open-angle glaucoma and to provide empirical evidence to inform the development
of tools to assess the validity of the results from crossover trials and
reporting guidelines.
METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane's CENTRAL register for
randomized crossover trials for a systematic review and network meta-analysis we 
are conducting. Two individuals independently screened the search results for
eligibility and abstracted data from each included report.
RESULTS: We identified 83 crossover trials eligible for inclusion. Issues
affecting the risk of bias in crossover trials, such as carryover, period effects
and missing data, were often ignored. Some trials failed to accommodate the
within-individual differences in the analysis. For a large proportion of the
trials, the authors tabulated the results as if they arose from a parallel
design. Precision estimates properly accounting for the paired nature of the
design were often unavailable from the study reports; consequently, to include
trial findings in a meta-analysis would require further manipulation and
assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: The high proportion of poorly reported analyses and results has the 
potential to affect whether crossover data should or can be included in a
meta-analysis. There is pressing need for reporting guidelines for crossover
trials.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133023 
PMCID: PMC4540315
PMID: 26284684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Vet Clin North Am Small Anim Pract. 2015 Nov;45(6):1159-82, v. doi:
10.1016/j.cvsm.2015.06.003. Epub 2015 Aug 13.

Genetics of Canine Primary Glaucomas.

Komáromy AM(1), Petersen-Jones SM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, Veterinary Medical Center,
College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University, 736 Wilson Road, Room 
D-208, East Lansing, MI 48824, USA. Electronic address: komaromy@cvm.msu.edu.
(2)Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, Veterinary Medical Center,
College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University, 736 Wilson Road, Room 
D-208, East Lansing, MI 48824, USA.

Primary glaucomas are a leading cause of incurable vision loss in dogs. Based on 
their specific breed predilection, a genetic cause is suspected to be
responsible, and affected dogs should be excluded from breeding. Despite the high
prevalence of primary glaucomas in dogs, their genetics have been studied in only
a small number of breeds. The identification of canine glaucoma disease genes,
and the development of genetic tests, will help to avoid the breeding of affected
dogs in the future and will allow for earlier diagnosis and potentially more
effective therapy.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cvsm.2015.06.003 
PMID: 26277300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Aug;56(9):5238-45. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17059.

The Relationship Between Helicobacter pylori Infection and Open-Angle Glaucoma: A
Meta-Analysis.

Zeng J, Liu H, Liu X, Ding C.

Comment in
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Dec;56(13):8029-30.

PURPOSE: Previous studies assessed the associations between Helicobacter pylori
infection and open-angle glaucoma (OAG) and produced inconsistent results.
Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis to evaluate the effects of H. pylori
infection on OAG risk.
METHODS: Relevant studies that reported the associations between H. pylori
infection and OAG were identified through an extensive search of the Exerpta
Medica Database (EMBASE), Web of Science, and PubMed databases in English and
Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure, VIP, and Wan Fang databases in
Chinese, and by reviewing the reference lists of the key articles. The summary
odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated using the
random-effects model.
RESULTS: This meta-analysis involved 695 glaucoma patients and 1580 control
individuals. The overall combined ORs showed a significant correlation between H.
pylori infection and OAG (OR = 2.08, 95% CI = 1.42-3.04). The subgroup analysis
showed the association of H. pylori infection with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG; OR = 3.06, 95% CI = 1.27-2.46) and normal tension glaucoma (NTG; OR =
1.77, 95% CI = 1.76-5.34), but not with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PXFG; OR =
1.46, 95% CI = 0.40-5.30).
CONCLUSIONS: The result of this meta-analysis suggested a statistically
significant association between H. pylori infection and OAG. Further analysis
showed that this positive relation is observed only in POAG and NTG patients, but
not in the PXFG patients.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17059 
PMID: 26258610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


96. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Sep;31(7):396-405. doi: 10.1089/jop.2015.0057. Epub
2015 Jul 13.

Secreted Protein Acidic and Rich in Cysteine in Ocular Tissue.

Scavelli K(1), Chatterjee A(1), Rhee DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University Hospitals Eye
Institute, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine , Cleveland, Ohio.

Secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC), also known as osteonectin
or BM-40, is the prototypical matricellular protein. Matricellular proteins are
nonstructural secreted proteins that provide an integration between cells and
their surrounding extracellular matrix (ECM). Regulation of the ECM is important 
in maintaining the physiologic function of tissues. Elevated levels of SPARC have
been identified in a variety of diseases involving pathologic tissue remodeling, 
such as hepatic fibrosis, systemic sclerosis, and certain carcinomas. Within the 
eye, SPARC has been identified in the trabecular meshwork, lens, and retina.
Studies have begun to show the role of SPARC in these tissues and its possible
role, specifically in primary open-angle glaucoma, cataracts, and proliferative
vitreoretinopathy. SPARC may, therefore, be a therapeutic target in the treatment
of certain ocular diseases. Further investigation into the mechanism of action of
SPARC will be necessary in the development of SPARC-targeted therapy.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2015.0057 
PMCID: PMC4575508
PMID: 26167673  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Exp Eye Res. 2015 Dec;141:42-56. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.06.019. Epub 2015 Jun
24.

Using genetic mouse models to gain insight into glaucoma: Past results and future
possibilities.

Fernandes KA(1), Harder JM(2), Williams PA(2), Rausch RL(3), Kiernan AE(4), Nair 
KS(5), Anderson MG(6), John SW(7), Howell GR(2), Libby RT(8).

Author information: 
(1)Flaum Eye Institute, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY,
USA. (2)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME, USA. (3)Flaum Eye Institute,
University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, USA; Interdepartmental
Graduate Program in Neuroscience, University of Rochester Medical Center,
Rochester, NY, USA. (4)Flaum Eye Institute, University of Rochester Medical
Center, Rochester, NY, USA; Department of Biomedical Genetics, University of
Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, USA. (5)Department of Ophthalmology,
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA. (6)Department of 
Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA; 
Center for the Prevention and Treatment of Visual Loss, Iowa City Veterans
Affairs (VA) Health Care System, Iowa City, IA, USA. (7)The Jackson Laboratory,
Bar Harbor, ME, USA; The Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bar Harbor, ME, USA.
(8)Flaum Eye Institute, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY,
USA; Department of Biomedical Genetics, University of Rochester Medical Center,
Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address: richard_libby@urmc.rochester.edu.

While all forms of glaucoma are characterized by a specific pattern of retinal
ganglion cell death, they are clinically divided into several distinct
subclasses, including normal tension glaucoma, primary open angle glaucoma,
congenital glaucoma, and secondary glaucoma. For each type of glaucoma there are 
likely numerous molecular pathways that control susceptibility to the disease.
Given this complexity, a single animal model will never precisely model all
aspects of all the different types of human glaucoma. Therefore, multiple animal 
models have been utilized to study glaucoma but more are needed. Because of the
powerful genetic tools available to use in the laboratory mouse, it has proven to
be a highly useful mammalian system for studying the pathophysiology of human
disease. The similarity between human and mouse eyes coupled with the ability to 
use a combination of advanced cell biological and genetic tools in mice have led 
to a large increase in the number of studies using mice to model specific
glaucoma phenotypes. Over the last decade, numerous new mouse models and genetic 
tools have emerged, providing important insight into the cell biology and
genetics of glaucoma. In this review, we describe available mouse genetic models 
that can be used to study glaucoma-relevant disease/pathobiology. Furthermore, we
discuss how these models have been used to gain insights into ocular hypertension
(a major risk factor for glaucoma) and glaucomatous retinal ganglion cell death. 
Finally, the potential for developing new mouse models and using advanced genetic
tools and resources for studying glaucoma are discussed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.06.019 
PMCID: PMC4628898
PMID: 26116903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Jan;100(1):78-85. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-306102.
Epub 2015 Jun 25.

Glaucoma in Asia: regional prevalence variations and future projections.

Chan EW(1), Li X(2), Tham YC(3), Liao J(3), Wong TY(4), Aung T(3), Cheng CY(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, National University of Singapore and National
University Health System, Singapore, Singapore. (2)Department of Biostatistics,
Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, USA Duke-NUS
Graduate Medical School, Singapore, Singapore. (3)Department of Ophthalmology,
National University of Singapore and National University Health System,
Singapore, Singapore Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore, Singapore.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, National University of Singapore and National
University Health System, Singapore, Singapore Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, 
Singapore, Singapore Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore, Singapore.

PURPOSE: To evaluate glaucoma prevalence and disease burden across Asian
subregions from 2013 to 2040.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of 23
population-based studies of 1318 primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) cases in
66,800 individuals and 691 primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) cases in 72,767 
individuals in Asia. Regions in Asia were defined based on United Nations' (UN)
classification of macro-geographic regions. PubMed, Medline and Web of Science
databases were searched for population-based glaucoma prevalence studies using
standardised criteria published to 31 December 2013. Pooled glaucoma prevalence
for individuals aged 40-80 years was calculated using hierarchical Bayesian
approaches. Prevalence differences by geographic subregion, subtype and
habitation were examined with random effects meta-regression models. Estimates of
individuals with glaucoma from 2013 to 2040 were based on the UN World Population
Prospects.
RESULTS: In 2013, pooled overall glaucoma prevalence was 3.54% (95% credible
interval (CrI) 1.83 to 6.28). POAG (2.34%, 95% CrI 0.96 to 4.55) predominated
over PACG (0.73%, 95% CrI 0.18 to 1.96). With age and gender adjustment, PACG
prevalence was higher in East than South East Asia (OR 5.55, 95% CrI 1.52 to
14.73), and POAG prevalence was higher in urban than rural populations (OR 2.11, 
95% CrI 1.57 to 2.38). From 2013 to 2040, South Central Asia will record the
steepest increase in number of glaucoma individuals from 17.06 million to 32.90
million compared with other Asian subregions. In 2040, South-Central Asia is also
projected to overtake East Asia for highest overall glaucoma and POAG burden,
while PACG burden remains highest in East Asia.
CONCLUSIONS: Across the Asian subregions, there was greater glaucoma burden in
South-Central and East Asia. Sustainable public health strategies to combat
glaucoma in Asia are needed.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-306102 
PMID: 26112871  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


99. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 10;10(6):e0127817. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127817.
eCollection 2015.

Extracting Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma from Electronic Medical Records for
Genetic Association Studies.

Restrepo NA(1), Farber-Eger E(1), Goodloe R(1), Haines JL(2), Crawford DC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Genetics Research, Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
Tennessee, United States of America. (2)Department of Epidemiology &
Biostatistics, Institute for Computational Biology, Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America.

Electronic medical records (EMRs) are being widely implemented for use in genetic
and genomic studies. As a phenotypic rich resource, EMRs provide researchers with
the opportunity to identify disease cohorts and perform genotype-phenotype
association studies. The Epidemiologic Architecture for Genes Linked to
Environment (EAGLE) study, as part of the Population Architecture using Genomics 
and Epidemiology (PAGE) I study, has genotyped more than 15,000 individuals of
diverse genetic ancestry in BioVU, the Vanderbilt University Medical Center's
biorepository linked to a de-identified version of the EMR (EAGLE BioVU). Here we
develop and deploy an algorithm utilizing data mining techniques to identify
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in African Americans from EAGLE BioVU for
genetic association studies. The algorithm described here was designed using a
combination of diagnostic codes, current procedural terminology billing codes,
and free text searches to identify POAG status in situations where gold-standard 
digital photography cannot be accessed. The case algorithm identified 267
potential POAG subjects but underperformed after manual review with a positive
predictive value of 51.6% and an accuracy of 76.3%. The control algorithm
identified controls with a negative predictive value of 98.3%. Although the case 
algorithm requires more downstream manual review for use in large-scale studies, 
it provides a basis by which to extract a specific clinical subtype of glaucoma
from EMRs in the absence of digital photographs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127817 
PMCID: PMC4465698
PMID: 26061293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Exp Eye Res. 2015 Dec;141:15-22. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.06.002. Epub 2015 Jun
4.

Animal models of glucocorticoid-induced glaucoma.

Overby DR(1), Clark AF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London, London, UK. (2)North
Texas Eye Research Institute, U. North Texas Health Science Center, Ft. Worth,
TX, USA. Electronic address: abe.clark@unthsc.edu.

Glucocorticoid (GC) therapy is widely used to treat a variety of inflammatory
diseases and conditions. While unmatched in their anti-inflammatory and
immunosuppressive activities, GC therapy is often associated with the significant
ocular side effect of GC-induced ocular hypertension (OHT) and iatrogenic
open-angle glaucoma. Investigators have generated GC-induced OHT and glaucoma in 
at least 8 different species besides man. These models mimic many features of
this condition in man and provide morphologic and molecular insights into the
pathogenesis of GC-OHT. In addition, there are many clinical, morphological, and 
molecular similarities between GC-induced glaucoma and primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG), making animals models of GC-induced OHT and glaucoma attractive 
models in which to study specific aspects of POAG.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.06.002 
PMCID: PMC4628841
PMID: 26051991  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Can J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jun;50(3):192-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2015.03.005.

Evaluation of primary open-angle glaucoma clinical practice guidelines.

Wu AM(1), Wu CM(1), Young BK(1), Wu DJ(1), Chen A(1), Margo CE(2), Greenberg
PB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Ophthalmology, Providence VA Medical Center; Division of
Ophthalmology, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University; Division of
Ophthalmology, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI?> (2)Departments of
Ophthalmology, Pathology, and Cell Biology, Morsani College of Medicine, Tampa,
Fl. (3)Section of Ophthalmology, Providence VA Medical Center; Division of
Ophthalmology, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University; Division of
Ophthalmology, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI?>. Electronic address:
paul_greenberg@brown.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the methodologic quality of 3 primary open-angle glaucoma 
(POAG) clinical practice guidelines (CPGs).
DESIGN: The CPGs were assessed with the Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and 
Evaluation (AGREE) II instrument.
PARTICIPANTS: Four authors (A.M.W., C.M.W., B.K.Y., D.J.W.) performed independent
assessments of POAG CPGs.
METHODS: POAG CPGs published by the American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO),
Canadian Ophthalmological Society (COS), and National Institute for Health and
Care Excellence (NICE) were appraised using the AGREE II instrument's 6 domains
(Scope and Purpose, Stakeholder Involvement, Rigor of Development, Clarity of
Presentation, Applicability, and Editorial Independence) and Overall Assessment
score summarizing guideline quality across all domains.
RESULTS: Scores ranged from 28% to 85% for the AAO CPG, 51% to 96% for the COS
CPG, and 55% to 97% for the NICE CPG. Intraclass correlation coefficients for the
reliability of mean scores for the AAO, COS, and NICE CPGs were 0.89, 0.86, and
0.74; 95% CIs were 0.80 to 0.95, 0.74 to 0.93, and 0.51 to 0.87, respectively.
The strongest domains were Scope and Purpose (AAO, COS, NICE) and Clarity of
Presentation (COS, NICE). The weakest domains were Stakeholder Involvement (AAO, 
COS) and Editorial Independence (AAO, COS, NICE).
CONCLUSIONS: Future POAG CPGs can be improved by addressing potential conflicts
of interest within the development group, ensuring transparency of guideline
development methodology, and involving all relevant stakeholders in guideline
development and review.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2015.03.005 
PMID: 26040218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Exp Eye Res. 2015 Dec;141:33-41. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.04.003. Epub 2015 May
27.

Elevation of intraocular pressure in rodents using viral vectors targeting the
trabecular meshwork.

Pang IH(1), Millar JC(2), Clark AF(3).

Author information: 
(1)North Texas Eye Research Institute, University of North Texas Health Science
Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA; Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of
North Texas Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA; Department of Cell
Biology & Immunology, University of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort
Worth, TX, USA. (2)North Texas Eye Research Institute, University of North Texas 
Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA; Department of Cell Biology &
Immunology, University of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA.
(3)North Texas Eye Research Institute, University of North Texas Health Science
Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA; Department of Cell Biology & Immunology, University 
of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA. Electronic address:
abe.clark@unthsc.edu.

Rodents are increasingly being used as glaucoma models to study ocular
hypertension, optic neuropathy, and retinopathy. A number of different techniques
are used to elevate intraocular pressure in rodent eyes by artificially
obstructing the aqueous outflow pathway. Another successful technique to induce
ocular hypertension is to transduce the trabecular meshwork of rodent eyes with
viral vectors expressing glaucoma associated transgenes to provide more relevant 
models of glaucomatous damage to the trabecular meshwork. This technique has been
used to validate newly discovered glaucoma pathogenesis pathways as well as to
develop rodent models of primary open angle glaucoma. Ocular hypertension has
successfully been induced by adenovirus 5 mediated delivery of mutant MYOC,
bioactivated TGFβ2, SFRP1, DKK1, GREM1, and CD44. Advantages of this approach
are: selective tropism for the trabecular meshwork, the ability to use numerous
mouse strains, and the relatively rapid onset of IOP elevation. Disadvantages
include mild-to-moderate ocular inflammation induced by the Ad5 vector and
sometimes transient transgene expression. Current efforts are focused at
discovering less immunogenic viral vectors that have tropism for the trabecular
meshwork and drive sufficient transgene expression to induce ocular hypertension.
This viral vector approach allows rapid proof of concept studies to study
glaucomatous damage to the trabecular meshwork without the expensive and
time-consuming generation of transgenic mouse lines.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.04.003 
PMCID: PMC4628881
PMID: 26025608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Ophthalmic Vis Res. 2015 Jan-Mar;10(1):68-76. doi: 10.4103/2008-322X.156120.

Glaucoma in iran and contributions of studies in iran to the understanding of the
etiology of glaucoma.

Suri F(1), Yazdani S(2), Elahi E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, School of Biology, College of
Science, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran. (2)Ocular Tissue Engineering
Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran ;
Ophthalmic Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran. (3)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, School of Biology,
College of Science, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran ; Department of
Biotechnology, College of Science, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.

Epidemiologic and genetic/molecular research on glaucoma in Iran started within
the past decade. A population-based study on the epidemiology of glaucoma in
Yazd, a city in central Iran, revealed that 4.4% of studied individuals were
affected with glaucoma: 1.6% with high tension primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG), 1.6% with normal tension POAG, and 0.4% each with primary angle closure
glaucoma (PACG) and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEXG), and other types of
secondary glaucoma. Two notable observations were the relatively high frequency
of normal tension glaucoma cases (1.6%) and the large fraction of glaucoma
affected individuals (nearly 90%) who were unaware of their condition. The first 
and most subsequent genetic studies on glaucoma in Iran were focused on primary
congenital glaucoma (PCG) showing that cytochrome P450 1B1 (CYP1B1) is the cause 
of PCG in the majority of Iranian patients, many different CYP1B1 mutations are
present among Iranian patients but only four mutations constitute the vast
majority, and the origins of most mutations in the Iranians are identical by
descent (IBD) with the same mutations in other populations. Furthermore, most of 
the PCG patients are from the northern and northwestern provinces of Iran. A
statistically significant male predominance of PCG was observed only among
patients without CYP1B1 mutations. Clinical investigations on family members of
PCG patients revealed that CYP1B1 mutations exhibit variable expressivity, but
almost complete penetrance. A great number of individuals harboring CYP1B1
mutations become affected with juvenile onset POAG. Screening of JOAG patients
showed that an approximately equal fraction of the patients harbor CYP1B1 and
(myocilin) MYOC mutations; MYOC is a well-known adult onset glaucoma causing
gene. Presence of CYP1B1 mutations in JOAG patients suggests that in some cases, 
the two conditions may share a common etiology. Further genetic analysis of
Iranian PCG patients led to identification of Latent-transforming growth factor
beta-binding protein 2 (LTBP2) as a causative gene for both PCG and several
diseases which are often accompanied by glaucomatous presentations, such as
Weill-Marchesani syndrome 3 (WMS3). The findings on LTBP2 have contributed to
recognize the importance of the extracellular matrix in pathways leading to
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.4103/2008-322X.156120 
PMCID: PMC4424722
PMID: 26005556  [PubMed]


104. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2015 May 13;9:2617-25. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S80338. eCollection
2015.

Fixed-combination treatments for intraocular hypertension in Chinese patients -
focus on bimatoprost-timolol.

Fang Y(1), Ling Z(1), Sun X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic
of China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Eye, Ear, Nose and
Throat Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's
Republic of China ; Shanghai Key Laboratory of Visual Impairment and Restoration,
Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China ; Key Laboratory of
Myopia, Ministry of Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of
China ; State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, Institutes of Brain
Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

Glaucoma is a common eye disease that can lead to irreversible vision loss if
left untreated. The early diagnosis and treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma 
is challenging, and visual impairment in Chinese glaucoma patients is a serious
concern. Most of these patients need more than one topical antiglaucoma agent to 
control their intraocular pressures (IOPs). In the People's Republic of China,
the daily cost of different glaucoma medication varies greatly, and the treatment
habits differ throughout the country. Prostaglandin analogs (PGAs) are
recommended as first-line monotherapy, because of their efficacy and low risk of 
systemic side effects. Fixed-combination drops, particularly PGA-based fixed
combinations, have recently been developed and used in patients with progression 
or who have failed to achieve their target IOPs. Here, we reviewed the current
literature on the use of bimatoprost-timolol fixed combination (BTFC) in the
People's Republic of China. BTFC has achieved good efficacy and tolerability in
Chinese clinical trials. In addition, BTFC is more cost effective compared with
other fixed combinations available in the People's Republic of China.
Fixed-combination drops may offer benefits, such as keeping the ocular surface
healthy, convenience of administration, and improvement in long-term adherence
and quality of life. Therefore, BTFC has great potential for the treatment of
Chinese glaucoma patients. However, the long-term efficacy of BTFC, comparisons
of BTFC with other fixed-combination drugs, and treatment adherence and
persistence with treatment in Chinese patients are unknown and will require
further study.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S80338 
PMCID: PMC4435054
PMID: 25999695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Eur J Pharm Biopharm. 2015 Sep;95(Pt B):173-81. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpb.2015.04.029. 
Epub 2015 May 7.

The aqueous humor outflow pathways in glaucoma: A unifying concept of disease
mechanisms and causative treatment.

Braunger BM(1), Fuchshofer R(1), Tamm ER(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of Regensburg,
Regensburg, Germany. (2)Institute of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of 
Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany. Electronic address:
ernst.tamm@vkl.uni-regensburg.de.

Intraocular pressure (IOP) is the critical risk factor for glaucoma, a
neurodegenerative disease and frequent cause of blindness worldwide. As of today,
all effective strategies to treat glaucoma aim at lowering IOP. IOP is generated 
and maintained via the aqueous humor circulation system in the anterior eye.
Aqueous humor is secreted by the ciliary processes and exits the eye through the 
trabecular meshwork (TM) or the uveoscleral outflow pathways. The TM outflow
pathways provide resistance to aqueous humor outflow and IOP builds up in
response to it. In the normal eye, the resistance is localized in the inner wall 
region, which comprises the juxtacanalicular connective tissue (JCT) and the
inner wall endothelium of Schlemm's canal (SC). Outflow resistance in the inner
wall region is lowered through the contraction of the ciliary muscle or the
relaxation of contractile myofibroblasts in the posterior part of the TM and the 
adjacent scleral spur. Patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), the most
frequent form of glaucoma, typically suffer from an abnormally high outflow
resistance of the inner wall region. There is increasing evidence that the
increase in TM outflow resistance in POAG is the result of a characteristic
change in the biological properties of the resident cells in the JCT, which
increasingly acquire the phenotype of contractile myofibroblasts. This scenario
strengthens simultaneously both their actin cytoskeleton and their directly
associated extracellular matrix fibrils, leads to overall stiffening of the
tissue, and is modulated by transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)/connective
tissue growth factor (CTGF) signaling. Essentially comparable changes appear to
occur in SC endothelial cells in glaucoma. Causative therapy concepts targeting
the aqueous outflow pathways in glaucoma should aim at interfering with this
process either by attenuating TM or SC stiffness, and/or by modulating TGF-β/CTGF
signaling.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpb.2015.04.029 
PMID: 25957840  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Ophthalmology. 2015 Jul;122(7):1294-307. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2015.03.021. Epub 
2015 May 2.

The Effect of Phacoemulsification on Intraocular Pressure in Glaucoma Patients: A
Report by the American Academy of Ophthalmology.

Chen PP(1), Lin SC(2), Junk AK(3), Radhakrishnan S(4), Singh K(5), Chen TC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, California. (3)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Miller School of Medicine,
University of Miami; Miami Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Miami, Florida.
(4)Glaucoma Center of San Francisco; Glaucoma Research and Education Group, San
Francisco, California. (5)Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California. (6)Harvard Medical School, Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts
Eye & Ear Infirmary, Glaucoma Service, Boston, Massachusetts.

OBJECTIVE: To examine effects of phacoemulsification on longer-term intraocular
pressure (IOP) in patients with medically treated primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG; including normal-tension glaucoma), pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PXG), or
primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG), without prior or concurrent incisional
glaucoma surgery.
METHODS: PubMed and Cochrane database searches, last conducted in December 2014, 
yielded 541 unique citations. Panel members reviewed titles and abstracts and
selected 86 for further review. The panel reviewed these articles and identified 
32 studies meeting the inclusion criteria, for which the panel methodologist
assigned a level of evidence based on standardized grading adopted by the
American Academy of Ophthalmology. One, 15, and 16 studies were rated as
providing level I, II, and III evidence, respectively.
RESULTS: All follow-up, IOP, and medication data listed are weighted means. In
general, the studies reported on patients using few glaucoma medications (1.5-1.9
before surgery among the different diagnoses). For POAG, 9 studies (total, 461
patients; follow-up, 17 months) showed that phacoemulsification reduced IOP by
13% and glaucoma medications by 12%. For PXG, 5 studies (total, 132 patients;
follow-up, 34 months) showed phacoemulsification reduced IOP by 20% and glaucoma 
medications by 35%. For chronic PACG, 12 studies (total, 495 patients; follow-up,
16 months) showed phacoemulsification reduced IOP by 30% and glaucoma medications
by 58%. Patients with acute PACG (4 studies; total, 119 patients; follow-up, 24
months) had a 71% reduction from presenting IOP and rarely required long-term
glaucoma medications when phacoemulsification was performed soon after medical
reduction of IOP. Trabeculectomy after phacoemulsification was uncommon; the
median rate reported within 6 to 24 months of follow-up in patients with
controlled POAG, PXG, or PACG was 0% and was 7% in patients with uncontrolled
chronic PACG.
CONCLUSIONS: Phacoemulsification typically results in small, moderate, and marked
reductions of IOP and medications for patients with POAG, PXG, and PACG,
respectively, and using 1 to 2 medications before surgery. Trabeculectomy within 
6 to 24 months after phacoemulsification is rare in such patients. However,
reports on its effects in eyes with advanced disease or poor IOP control before
surgery are few, particularly for POAG and PXG.

Copyright © 2015 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2015.03.021 
PMID: 25943711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Surv Ophthalmol. 2015 Jul-Aug;60(4):366-72. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2014.08.006. Epub 2014 Oct 5.

Tug of war.

Gospe SM 3rd(1), Bhatti MT(2), Chavis PS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University Eye Center and Duke University
Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke
University Eye Center and Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina,
USA; Department of Neurology, Duke University Eye Center and Duke University
Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA. Electronic address:
tariq.bhatti@duke.edu. (3)Richmond, VA, USA.

A 74-year-old man had reproducible superior and inferior arcuate visual field
defects in the left eye only that were initially believed to be caused by primary
open-angle glaucoma. Diagnostic evaluation with the aid of optical coherence
tomography revealed extrafoveal vitreomacular traction (VMT) with secondary
retinal thickening and schisis. We discuss the evaluation of non-glaucomatous
visual field defects and review the literature on the pathogenesis, clinical
manifestations, and treatment of VMT syndrome.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2014.08.006 
PMID: 25891028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


108. BMC Ophthalmol. 2015 Mar 5;15:17. doi: 10.1186/s12886-015-0007-1.

Pre-operative intraocular pressure does not influence outcome of trabeculectomy
surgery: a retrospective cohort study.

Nesaratnam N(1), Sarkies N(2), Martin KR(3,)(4), Shahid H(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Clinical Medicine, University of Cambridge, Hills Road, Cambridge,
CB2 0QQ, UK. nn252@cam.ac.uk. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Hills Road,
Cambridge, UK. nicholas.sarkies@addenbrookes.nhs.uk. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS
Foundation Trust, Hills Road, Cambridge, UK. krgm2@cam.ac.uk. (4)John van Geest
Centre for Brain Repair and Cambridge NIHR Biomedical Research Centre University 
of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. krgm2@cam.ac.uk. (5)Department of Ophthalmology,
Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust,
Hills Road, Cambridge, UK. humma.shahid@addenbrookes.nhs.uk.

BACKGROUND: To investigate whether pre-operative intraocular pressure (IOP)
predicts outcome of trabeculectomy surgery in patients with primary open angle
glaucoma over a 3-year period of follow-up.
METHODS: Retrospective cohort study, of a total of 61 patients (80 procedures)
who had undergone trabeculectomy surgery after failed medical management at a
single centre between 2000 and 2011. Patients were identified through surgical
logbooks. A subsequent case note-review identified 61 patients (80 procedures)
with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG). The primary outcome was success of
trabeculectomy surgery, with failure defined as intraocular pressure (IOP) > 21
mmHg, ≤ 5 mmHg or not reduced by 20% at two consecutive follow-up visits 3-months
post-operatively. Qualified success was defined as surgical success with the use 
of supplemental medical therapy. Secondary outcomes included visual acuity,
Humphrey visual field MD, surgical complications and post-operative
interventions.
RESULTS: At 3 years, the odds ratio of failure was 0.93 per mmHg pre-operative
IOP (95% C.I. 0.83-1.03, p = 0.15 Wald Χ (2) test), and the odds ratio of failure
or qualified success was 0.96 (95% C.I. 0.89-1.04, p = 0.35). The incidence of
surgical complications showed an odds ratio of 1.02 per mmHg pre-operative IOP
(95% C.I. 0.95-1.10, p = 0.55 Wald Χ (2) test). The incidence of post-operative
interventions showed an odds ratio of 1.01 per mmHg pre-operative IOP (95% C.I.
0.94-1.09, p = 0.80 Wald Χ (2) test).
CONCLUSIONS: Pre-operative IOP does not predict success of trabeculectomy surgery
in POAG patients during the first 3 years of follow-up. The incidence of surgical
complications and post-operative interventions shows no association with
pre-operative IOP.

DOI: 10.1186/s12886-015-0007-1 
PMCID: PMC4352261
PMID: 25884298  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2015 Mar;119(3):168-93; discussion 194.

[Aiming for zero blindness].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakazawa T.

Glaucoma is the leading cause of acquired blindness in Japan. One reason that it 
often leads to blindness is that it can continue to worsen even after effective
medical reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP), the only evidence-based
treatment. The limitations of current treatments make it critical to identify
IOP-independent factors that can cause glaucoma and develop new drugs to target
these factors. This is a challenging task, as the pathology of glaucoma is
thought to be very complex, with different combinations of factors underlying its
development and progression in different patients. Additionally, there is a
deficiency in methods to efficiently perform clinical evaluations and reliably
probe the state of the disease over relatively short periods. In addition, newly 
developed drugs need to be evaluated with clinical trials, for which human and
financial resources are limited, before they can be widely used for treatment.
Taking all these issues into consideration, it is evident that there are two
urgent issues to consider: the development of methods to classify glaucoma in
detail based on its pathology, and the improvement of clinical evaluation
methods. In this review, we discuss some of our efforts to develop new
neuroprotective agents for glaucoma, with a focus on the following three areas:
1. Clinical research and development of methods to classify glaucoma in detail
based on IOP-independent factors, and the exploration of possibilities for the
improvement of clinical evaluation of glaucoma. 2. Pathology-based research and
development of new drugs for glaucoma, focusing on comprehensive gene expression 
analysis and the development of molecule-targeting drugs, using murine optic
nerve crush as a disease model. 3. Development of next generation in vivo imaging
modalities and the establishment of infrastructure enabling "big-data" analysis. 
First, we discuss our clinical research and the development of methods to
classify glaucoma in detail based on IOP-independent factors, as well as our
investigation of ways to improve the clinical evaluation of the disease. Our
research was prompted by the multifactorial nature of glaucoma. There is a high
degree of variability in the pattern and speed of the progression of visual field
defects in individual patients, presenting a major obstacle for successful
clinical trials. To overcome this, we classified the eyes of glaucoma patients
into 4 types, corresponding to the 4 patterns of glaucomatous optic nerve head
morphology described: by Nicolela et al. and then tested the validity of this
method by assessing the uniformity of clinical features in each group. We found
that in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) eyes, each disc morphology group had a
characteristic location in which the loss of circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber 
layer thickness (cpRNFLT; measured with optical coherence tomography: OCT) was
most likely to occur. Furthermore, the incidence of reductions in visual acuity
differed between the groups, as did the speed of visual field loss, the
distribution of defective visual field test points, and the location of test
points that were most susceptible to progressive damage, measured by Humphrey
static perimetry. These results indicate that Nicolela's method of classifying
eyes with glaucoma was able to overcome the difficulties caused by the diverse
nature of the disease, at least to a certain extent. Building on these findings, 
we then set out to identify sectors of the visual field that correspond to the
distribution of retinal nerve fibers, with the aim of detecting glaucoma
progression with improved sensitivity. We first mapped the statistical
correlation between visual field test points and cpRNFLT in each temporal
clock-hour sector (from 6 to 12 o'clock), using OCT data from NTG patients. The
resulting series of maps allowed us to identify areas containing visual field
test points that were prone to be affected together as a group. We also used a
similar method to identify visual field sectors within a 10 x 10 grid displayed
by an OCT map of the macula. By analyzing both the visual field and the macular
map sectors, we anticipate that a more accurate and sensitive detection of
glaucoma progression can become possible. We also used laser speckle flowgraphy
(LSFG) to assess optic nerve blood flow. We found that compared to healthy eyes, 
eyes with early-stage NTG had decreased blood flow, and the peak of the blood
flow wave form of each heartbeat was delayed. Finally, we used a method combining
swept source OCT (SS-OCT) and newly developed analysis software to reconstruct
the entire lamina cribrosa, a structure situated deep in the optic nerve head.
This morphological analysis returned preliminary data suggesting that alterations
in the morphology of the lamina cribrosa are already present in the early stages 
of glaucoma. This result indicates that axonal injury, mediated by morphological 
abnormalities of the lamina cribrosa, is involved in the pathogenesis of
glaucoma. The next topic discussed is the pathology-based drug research and
development, focusing on the use of comprehensive gene expression analysis and
the development of molecule-targeting drugs in a murine model of optic nerve
injury. Learning from clinical data on glaucoma and the lamina cribrosa, we
carried out basic research to first determine what factors regulate axonal
injury, and then develop drugs targeting these factors. Specifically, we
performed a comprehensive gene expression analysis, using a next generation
sequencer, and pathway analysis of retinal samples obtained from a murine model
of axonal injury. This analysis revealed a characteristic upregulation of genes
(such as Chop) that belongs to the endoplasmic reticulum stress pathway. An
immunohistological analysis revealed that these changes in gene expression took
place in the retinal ganglion cells, suggesting that endoplasmic reticulum stress
molecules may be suitable therapeutic targets. Among these molecules, we chose
CHOP as our primary target for drug development. Currently, we are in the process
of screening a library of 1274 drugs, all of which are already used in human
subjects, for CHOP inhibitors. The last topic of our discussion is future
possibilities for glaucoma management. First, we discuss the development of next 
generation in vivo imaging modalities that allow detailed description of
pathomechanisms of this multifactorial disease, glaucoma. The purpose of this
research was to improve the efficacy of glaucoma diagnosis and to visualize its
pathology at a cellular/molecular level and develop molecule-specific therapies. 
Currently available visual field tests are subjective, since they rely on a
determination of the threshold of light perception, and are affected by poor
reproducibility. The current dependence on visual field tests to ascertain the
progression of glaucoma is thus a serious limitation on an important task of
ophthalmologists. We, therefore, turned our focus to the establishment of an in
vivo imaging method to detect dying retinal ganglion cells, which would highlight
the pathologic state of glaucoma with high sensitivity. To this end, we used
confocal scanning ophthalmoscopy to assess the usefulness of SYTOX Orange as a
cell death probe. Our results showed that this probe could reveal dying retinal
ganglion cells clearly, quickly and with high sensitivity. We, therefore, believe
that the clinical application of probes that can sensitively detect dying retinal
ganglion cells is a highly promising approach. This also applies to the use of
molecular tools that can provide information on the molecular pathology of
glaucoma. Finally, we would like to introduce our national collaborative work on 
the analysis of "big-data". The project aims to collect as wide a range of data
as possible at an unprecedented scale. The data to be registered ranges from
basic glaucoma data, such as IOP and visual field test results, to data from the 
most sophisticated comprehensive expression analyses or imaging data. This is an 
important area of research, since it promises to enable the exploration of
targets for drug discovery and the identification of new biomarkers to
efficiently detect glaucoma progression by applying new analysis strategies to
the complex mass data. The project not only depends on the collaborative efforts 
of various types of clinical settings including private practices, medical
centers and university hospitals, but also contributions of the pharmaceutical
and the medical device industries. Thus, uniting a wide range of Japanese
interests and resources is the key for success. In summary, in order to aim for
ZERO BLINDNESS, a drastic improvement in the quality of our patient care, drug
development research for unmet medical demands, and a strategic collaboration of 
various professionals in the ophthalmic industry are essential. With the deep
appreciation we fell towards the selfless support extended during the earthquake 
disaster, we wish to translate our "gratitude" into "power" from Tohoku. In doing
so, we as academicians are determined to keep on contributing to the society by
making progress in the medicine.


PMID: 25854109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Molecules. 2015 Mar 31;20(4):5667-79. doi: 10.3390/molecules20045667.

Nitric oxide donors and selective carbonic anhydrase inhibitors: a dual
pharmacological approach for the treatment of glaucoma, cancer and osteoporosis.

Carradori S(1), Mollica A(2), De Monte C(3), Ganese A(4), Supuran CT(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, "G. D'Annunzio" University of Chieti-Pescara, Via dei 
Vestini 31, 66100 Chieti, Italy. simone.carradori@unich.it. (2)Department of
Pharmacy, "G. D'Annunzio" University of Chieti-Pescara, Via dei Vestini 31, 66100
Chieti, Italy. a.mollica@unich.it. (3)Department of Drug Chemistry and
Technologies, Sapienza University of Rome, P.le A. Moro 5, 00185 Rome, Italy.
celeste.demonte@uniroma1.it. (4)Department of Drug Chemistry and Technologies,
Sapienza University of Rome, P.le A. Moro 5, 00185 Rome, Italy.
arianna.granese@uniroma1.it. (5)Laboratorio di Chimica Bioinorganica, Università 
degli Studi di Firenze, Via della Lastruccia 3, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino (Firenze),
Italy. claudiu.supuran@unifi.it.

Due to the recognized biological role of nitric oxide (NO) donating derivatives
and of selective inhibitors of specific human carbonic anhydrase isoforms (CA, EC
4.2.1.1), promising compounds having an aromatic/heterocyclic primary sulfonamide
and functionalized with NO-releasing moieties have been designed. These
bifunctional agents have been tested in vitro and in vivo to assess their dual
pharmacological activity. According to the encouraging results they could be
proposed for the treatment of angle-open glaucoma, cancer regression and
osteoporosis, in which both NO and CA activities are involved.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules20045667 
PMID: 25838170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Nig Q J Hosp Med. 2015 Apr-Jun;25(2):133-8.

Intraocular Pressure Changes Post Selective Laser Trabeculoplasty in the
Contralateral Untreated Eyes of Nigerian Patients With Primary Open Angle
Glaucoma.

Onakoya AO, Olowoyeye AO, Onyekwelu OM, Abikoye TM.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is the commonest cause of irreversible blindness in Nigeria 
and raised intraocular pressure (IOP) is the only modifiable risk factor.
Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT), one of the treatment modalities, has been 
reported to have a cross-over effect on the fellow untreated eyes.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the lOP lowering effect of SLT on the contralateral
untreated eyes in patients with primary open angle glaucoma.
METHODS: This was a retrospective chart review of patients who underwent SLT at
Guinness Eye Centre, Lagos from June 2011-June 2012. Information on bio-data,
diagnosis and modality of treatment were retrieved. Excluded were patients who
had glaucoma surgery or needed additional medications. Each patient had SLT in
one eye either as primary or adjunctive treatment. IOPs were measured
post-operatively in both treated and untreated eyes at various time points using 
the Goldmann applanation tonometer. Data was analysed using paired and unpaired
two-tailed t-test for comparison of means with level of significance set at
p<0.05.
RESULTS: Forty eyes of twenty subjects were included. 60% (12) were males and 40%
(8) were females. The mean age was 48.9 +/- 17.0 years (range, 23-74 years).
Reduction in IOP from baseline was found in both the treated and the fellow
untreated eyes at the various time points. Mean IOP reduction was maximal at 3
months; 8 mmHg or 26% (p=0.024) in the treated eyes and 7 mmHg or 25.9% (p=0.097)
in the untreated eyes. Mean IOP reduction from baseline-were 1.3 +/- 5.9mmHg or
6.3% (P=.624) in the treated eyes and 2.9 +/- 7.5 mmHg or 9.7% (P=.418) in the
untreated eyes at 6 months.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that there is a sustained IOP reduction in the
fellow untreated eyes following SLT in patients with POAG. In view of the
retrospective nature of the study, small sample size, non-randomization and lack 
of control definite conclusions cannot be drawn from the findings.


PMID: 27295834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


112. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 16;10(3):e0118852. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118852.
eCollection 2015.

Complications and outcomes of primary phacotrabeculectomy with mitomycin C in a
multi-ethnic asian population.

Chen DZ(1), Koh V(2), Sng C(2), Aquino MC(2), Chew P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, National University Health System, Singapore,
Singapore; Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore,
Singapore, Singapore. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, National University Health 
System, Singapore, Singapore.

PURPOSE: To determine the occurrence of intraoperative and postoperative
complications up to three years after primary phacotrabeculectomy with
intraoperative use of Mitomycin C (MMC) in primary open angle (POAG) and primary 
angle closure glaucoma (PACG) patients, and the effect of postoperative
complications on surgical outcome.
METHODS: Retrospective review of 160 consecutive patients with POAG (n = 105) and
PACG (n = 55), who underwent primary phacotrabeculectomy with MMC at the National
University Hospital, Singapore, from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010. Data
was collected using a standardized form that included patient demographic
information, ocular characteristics and postoperative complications, including
hypotony (defined as intraocular pressure < 6 mmHg), shallow anterior chamber
(AC) and hyphema.
RESULTS: The mean age ± standard deviation (SD) of patients was 68.2 ± 8.2 years.
No patient lost light perception during duration of follow-up. 77% of the
postoperative complications occurred within the first month only. The commonest
complications were hypotony (n = 41, 25.6%), hyphema (n = 16, 10.0%) and shallow 
AC (n = 16, 10.0%). Five patients (3.1%) required reoperation for their
complications. Early hypotony (defined as hypotony < 30 days postoperatively) was
an independent risk factor for surgical failure (hazard ratio [HR], 5.1; 95% CI, 
1.6-16.2; p = 0.01). Hypotony with another complication was also a risk factor
for surgical failure (p < 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Hypotony, hyphema and shallow AC were the commonest postoperative
complications in POAG and PACG patients after phacotrabeculectomy with MMC. Most 
complications were transient and self-limiting. Early hypotony within the first
month was a significant risk factor for surgical failure.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118852 
PMCID: PMC4361399
PMID: 25775362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Nov;2014(11). pii: CD011366.

Combination medical treatment for primary open angle glaucoma and ocular
hypertension: a network meta-analysis.

Michelessi M(1), Lindsley K(2), Yu T(2), Li T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology, Fondazione G.B. Bietti per lo studio e la ricerca in
Oftalmolologia-IRCCS, Rome, Italy. ; Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. (2)Department of
Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore,
Maryland, USA.

This is the protocol for a review and there is no abstract. The objectives are as
follows: The objectives of this review are to examine the comparative
effectiveness and safety of different glaucoma fixed combination therapies and
monotherapies in eyes with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension and
to provide relative rankings of these treatments.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011366 
PMCID: PMC4356167
PMID: 25774087  [PubMed]


114. Am J Hypertens. 2015 Sep;28(9):1077-82. doi: 10.1093/ajh/hpv016. Epub 2015 Mar
11.

Circadian Variation in Arterial Blood Pressure and Glaucomatous Optic
Neuropathy--A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Bowe A(1), Grünig M(2), Schubert J(2), Demir M(2), Hoffmann V(2), Kütting F(2),
Pelc A(2), Steffen HM(2).

Author information: 
(1)EbM Working Group, Clinic for Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University
Hospital of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. andrea.bowe@uk-koeln.de. (2)EbM Working
Group, Clinic for Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital of
Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Comment in
    Am J Hypertens. 2015 Sep;28(9):1184-5.
    Am J Hypertens. 2015 Sep;28(9):1182-3.

BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies have led to equivocal results concerning the 
role of arterial blood pressure as a risk factor for the development of
glaucomatous damage and progressive visual field loss in glaucoma has been
attributed to low nighttime blood pressure, especially when oral
antihypertensives have been combined with beta-blocking eyedrops. In order to
answer the question whether nocturnal blood pressure or blood pressure dip during
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring are associated with progressive visual field
loss we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies in patients
with primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma.
METHODS: After searching MEDLINE, the Cochrane Library, and EMBASE, only 5
studies could be found reporting information on the method of ambulatory blood
pressure measurements, separate data for daytime and nighttime blood pressure,
definition of nocturnal blood pressure dip, and assessment of visual fields over 
a period of at least 2 years.
RESULTS: There was no difference in mean systolic or diastolic diurnal and
nocturnal blood pressure between patients with or without progressive visual
field loss. The odds ratio for deteriorating visual fields over 2 years with
nocturnal dips >10% in systolic or diastolic blood pressure was 3.32 (1.84-6.00) 
and 2.09 (1.20-3.64), respectively. Data allowing a separate analysis of
over-dipping were not available.
CONCLUSIONS: Nocturnal blood pressure fall is a risk factor for progressive
visual field loss in glaucoma. However, prospective studies are needed to define 
a tolerable degree of dipping. Antihypertensive therapy in glaucomatous patients 
should be controlled with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.

© American Journal of Hypertension, Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ajh/hpv016 
PMID: 25767134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Vestn Oftalmol. 2014 Nov-Dec;130(6):98-104.

[On pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Erichev VP, Egorov EA.

The article comprises data on the pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma.
Accepted theories and risk factors of glaucoma development are considered from a 
historical perspective as well as in the light of modern understanding of the
essence of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. The impact of different independent
factors on particular pathogenetic events and their interrelation is shown. Data 
on possible mechanisms involved in the neurogenerative process that yet lack
substantiation are presented.


PMID: 25715559  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Vestn Oftalmol. 2014 Sep-Oct;130(5):96-9.

[Genetic studies of primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Tikunova EV, Churnosov MI.

The present review is devoted to genetic studies of primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG). Today, POAG is considered a multifactorial disease with threshold effect,
which is associated with single or multiple genes mutation as well as external
influences. According to molecular genetic studies, three causative genes (MYOC, 
optinevrin, WDR 36) and several dosens of candidate genes are involved in the
development of POAG.


PMID: 25711070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Feb;232(2):152-61. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1396210. Epub
2015 Feb 20.

[Ocular blood flow regulation in glaucoma - examination with the ocular pressure 
flow analyzer (OPFA)].

[Article in German]

Ulrich WD(1), Moeller A(1), Ulrich C(1), Siebert G(2), Wernecke KD(2), Erb C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Augenarztpraxis, 04552 Borna. (2)Sostana GmbH, 10117 Berlin. (3)Augenklinik am
Wittenbergplatz, 10787 Berlin.

Comment in
    Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Aug;232(8):1001-2.
    Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Aug;232(8):995-6.

BACKGROUND: The results of studies of ocular blood flow (BF) regulation of
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)
and ocular hypertension (OH) are presented.
METHODS AND PATIENTS: Examinations were carried out with the "OPFA", a newly
developed ocular pressure flow analyzer (producer: tpm Lüneburg) on 92 patients
with newly diagnosed glaucomas, among whom 48 patients had POAG, 22 NTG and 22
OH, and compared with age-matched groups of healthy subjects. The OPFA uses
pneumatic coupling through special scleral suction cups to record ocular pulses
with highly sensitive transducers and a suction pump for simultaneously
increasing intraocular pressure (IOP). Following local drop anaesthesia on both
eyes, IOP is artificially raised to suprasystolic values. While continuously
lowering IOP, the ocular pulse is then recorded with increasing ocular perfusion 
pressure. We obtain the relative ocular pulse blood volume by correlating the
ocular pulse amplitudes with a calibration volume of 1 µl. This enables us to
collect reproducible data on intra- and inter-individual pulse blood volume
(PVoc). The ocular perfusion pressure pulse blood volume curve characterizes the 
respective individual ocular circulation as well as systolic and diastolic ocular
perfusion pressures.
RESULTS: In healthy subjects, the ocular pulse blood volume remains stable over a
certain range of ocular perfusion pressure (ppoc) changes. After exceeding a
critical point (CP), the ocular pulse blood volume drops. We refer to the
difference between the CP and IOP as the autoregulatory capacity (AC). In
patients with POAG and in patients with NTG, the AC was reduced significantly
compared with the groups of healthy subjects. The mean AC of patients with OH
remained within the normal range. The ROC curves showed at an optimal cut-off
value for POAG a sensitivity of 75.0 % and a specificity of 97.9 %, for NTG a
sensitivity of 77.3 % and a specificity of 100 %. In patients with POAG and OH,
the ocular arterial pressures were elevated. In patients with NTG they remained
unchanged compared with the healthy subjects. The ocular perfusion pressures did 
not change in POAG as well as in NTG and OH.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with POAG and in patients with NTG the ocular BF
regulation was impaired and detected by the OPFA device with a high level of
reliability. Ocular arterial blood pressures were increased as a result of
vascular regulation to keep up the ocular perfusion pressure and to maintain
ocular perfusion.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1396210 
PMID: 25700253  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Feb;232(2):141-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1383398. Epub 
2015 Feb 20.

[Ocular perfusion pressure and its relevance for glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Schmidl D(1), Werkmeister R(2), Garhöfer G(1), Schmetterer L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinik für Klinische Pharmakologie, Medizinische Universität Wien,
Österreich. (2)Zentrum für Medizinische Physik und Biomedizinische Technik,
Medizinische Universität Wien, Österreich.

Ocular perfusion pressure is defined as the difference between arterial and
venous pressure in ocular vessels. In practice, mean arterial pressure is used to
substitute for arterial pressure in ocular vessels while intraocular pressure
gives an estimate for ocular venous pressure. This results in a value that is
easy to calculate and which is of importance since several studies have shown
that it is correlated to the prevalence, incidence and progression of primary
open angle glaucoma. Today, ocular perfusion pressure is used to estimate
individual risks. Since no target value for ocular perfusion pressure can be
defined, direct therapeutic intervention is difficult. Still, it has to be kept
in mind that lowering intraocular pressure automatically leads to an increase in 
ocular perfusion pressure. The present article also points out problems and
limitations in the concept of ocular perfusion pressure and suggests possible
solutions for these problems in the future.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1383398 
PMID: 25700252  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Br J Ophthalmol. 2015 Aug;99(8):1092-6. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-306269.
Epub 2015 Feb 12.

Gonioscopy assisted transluminal trabeculotomy: an ab interno circumferential
trabeculotomy for the treatment of primary congenital glaucoma and juvenile open 
angle glaucoma.

Grover DS(1), Smith O(1), Fellman RL(1), Godfrey DG(1), Butler MR(1), Montes de
Oca I(2), Feuer WJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Associates of Texas, Dallas, Texas, USA. (2)Unidad Oftalmologica
Montego c.a, Barquisimeto, Venezuela. (3)University of Miami, Bascom Palmer Eye
Institute, Miami, Florida, USA.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To introduce a novel ab interno 360° trabeculotomy for treating 
primary congenital glaucoma (PCG) and juvenile open angle glaucoma (JOAG) and
report preliminary results.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of patients who underwent a gonioscopy
assisted transluminal trabeculotomy (GATT) procedure by four of the authors (DSG,
OS, RLF and DGG) between October 2011 and October 2013. The surgery was performed
in patients ≤30 years old with a dysgenic anterior segment angle and uncontrolled
PCG and JOAG.
RESULTS: Fourteen eyes of 10 patients underwent GATT with follow-up >12 months
(12-33 months; mean 20.4). Patients ranged in age from 17 months to 30 years
(mean=18.4 years), and five (50%) were female patients. No complications occurred
during or following surgery except for early postoperative hyphema in five (36%) 
of eyes, all cleared by 1 month. The mean intraocular pressure (IOP) decreased
from 27.3 to 14.8 mm Hg and the mean number of medications required decreased
from 2.6 to 0.86. Five eyes had a drop in IOP ≥15 mm Hg (range 15-39).
CONCLUSIONS: The preliminary results and safety for GATT, a minimally invasive
conjunctival sparing circumferential trabeculotomy, are promising and at least
equivalent to previous results for ab externo trabeculotomy for the treatment of 
PCG and JOAG. All eyes in the study were considered a clinical success.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-306269 
PMID: 25677669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Glaucoma. 2015 Aug;24(6):e157-62. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000228.

Intraocular Pressure Following Phacoemulsification and Endoscopic
Cyclophotocoagulation for Advanced Glaucoma: 1-Year Outcomes.

Morales J(1), Al Qahtani M, Khandekar R, Al Shahwan S, Al Odhayb S, Al Mobarak F,
Edward DP.

Author information: 
(1)*King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia †Wilmer Eye
Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.

PURPOSE: To evaluate changes in intraocular pressure (IOP), vision, and
medications at least 1 year after phacoemulsification combined with
endocyclophotocoagulation for advanced glaucoma and cataract.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was conducted on patients with advanced
glaucoma who underwent phacoemulsification combined with
endocyclophotocoagulation at King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital between 2005 and
2012. Data were collected on patient demographics, type of glaucoma, IOP over
time, best-corrected visual acuity, number of glaucoma medications,
comorbidities, and previous surgeries. Absolute success was defined as IOP≤15 mm 
Hg without medication and qualified success was IOP≤15 mm Hg with medications.
Statistical significance was indicated by P<0.05.
RESULTS: The study sample comprised 104 eyes (104 patients). Mean follow-up was
17.3±1.8 months. Mean IOP decreased from 17±1.4 mm Hg preoperatively to 14.7±1.3 
mm Hg at the last postoperative visit. Absolute success was achieved in 11.9%
(95% confidence interval, 5.6-18.2) of the eyes. Qualified success was achieved
in 72.3% (95% confidence interval, 63.5-81.0) of the eyes. Best-corrected visual 
acuity improved by ≥2 lines in 76 (73%) eyes. Eyes with primary open-angle
glaucoma had the higher absolute and qualified success rates compared with
primary angle-closure and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (P>0.05). Only 48 (46%)
patients required >3 medications for IOP control compared with 78 (75%) patients 
before surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: At ≥1 year postoperatively, the absolute success rate of treating
advanced glaucoma by endocyclophotocoagulation and phacoemulsification was low.
However, medication burden was reduced. Owing to the significant variation in the
success rate based on the type of glaucoma, patients with advanced glaucoma
should be carefully selected and counseled.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000228 
PMID: 25646714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Middle East Afr J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan-Mar;22(1):64-8. doi:
10.4103/0974-9233.148351.

Outcomes of Ahmed valve implant following a failed initial trabeculotomy and
trabeculectomy in refractory primary congenital glaucoma.

Dave P(1), Senthil S(2), Choudhari N(2), Sekhar GC(2).

Author information: 
(1)VST Glaucoma Centre, Kallam Anji Reddy Campus, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh,
India ; Department of Glaucoma, Dr. TV Patel Eye Institute, Salatwada, Vadodara, 
Gujarat, India. (2)VST Glaucoma Centre, Kallam Anji Reddy Campus, Hyderabad,
Andhra Pradesh, India.

PURPOSE: The aim was to report the outcome of Ahmed glaucoma valve (AGV) (New
World Medical, Inc., Rancho Cucamonga, CA, USA) implantation as a surgical
intervention following an initial failed combined trabeculotomy + trabeculectomy 
(trab + trab) in refractory primary congenital glaucoma (RPCG).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective chart review of 11 eyes of 8 patients who
underwent implantation of AGV (model FP8) for RPCG between 2009 and 2011. Prior
trab + trab had failed in all the eyes. Success was defined as an intraocular
pressure (IOP) >5 and ≤ 18 mmHg during examination under anesthesia with or
without medications and without serious complications or additional glaucoma
surgery.
RESULTS: The mean age at AGV implantation was 15.4 ± 4.9 months. The mean
preoperative IOP was 28 ± 5.7 mmHg which reduced to 13.6 ± 3.4 mmHg
postoperatively at the last follow-up (P < 0.0001). The number of topical
antiglaucoma medications reduced from a mean of 2.6 ± 0.5 to 1.6 ± 0.9
postoperatively (P = 0.009). The definition of qualified success was met in 10
(90%) eyes. One eye developed a shallow anterior chamber with choroidal
detachment at 1-week, which resolved spontaneously with medications. None of the 
eyes developed a hypertensive phase. One eye had a long tube resulting in tube
corneal touch that required trimming of the tube. One eye developed tube
retraction, which was treated with a tube extender. The mean follow-up was 17.9 ±
9.3 (6.2-35.4) months.
CONCLUSION: Managing RPCG remains a challenge. AGV implant was successful in a
significant proportion of cases.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-9233.148351 
PMCID: PMC4302479
PMID: 25624676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Middle East Afr J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan-Mar;22(1):2-9. doi:
10.4103/0974-9233.148342.

Noninvasive glaucoma procedures: current options and future innovations.

Abdelrahman AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt.

Noninvasive glaucoma procedures (NIGPs) represent a new dawn in the management of
glaucoma. They try to fill the gap between the shortcoming of invasive glaucoma
surgeries and antiglaucoma medications. NIGPs were introduced as an adjunct or
alternative treatments for glaucoma. Some of these procedures have shown good
efficacy with few serious complications. Hence, they are now used as both primary
and adjunctive therapy for glaucoma. The most common NIGPS involve laser and
ultrasound technologies. Currently, the portfolio of NIGPs includes argon laser
trabeculoplasty, selective laser trabeculoplasty, and micropulse diode laser
trabeculoplasty. More recent innovations include therapeutic ultrasound for
glaucoma, ultrasonic circular cyclocoagulation, and deep wave trabeculoplasty.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-9233.148342 
PMCID: PMC4302472
PMID: 25624667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2015 Mar;26(2):90-5. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000124.

Myopia and glaucoma: sorting out the difference.

Hsu CH(1), Chen RI, Lin SC.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco,
California, USA bDepartment of Ophthalmology, Taipei Medical University Shuang Ho
Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan cCase Western Reserve University School of
Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The aim of the present review was to summarize the evidence
implicating the association between myopia and glaucoma, the possible underlying 
mechanisms for this relation, and the controversies surrounding detection of
glaucomatous changes in coexisting myopia.
RECENT FINDINGS: Numerous studies have shown that increasing categories of myopia
are associated with a higher risk for optic neuropathy and glaucoma-like visual
field defects. Recently, some high-resolution imaging modalities have been
developed that aid further detection of the microanatomical changes of the optic 
nerve head and thus may provide a new insight to explain the association between 
myopia and glaucoma. Although the highly myopic eye usually shows many structural
and functional defects that are difficult to distinguish from those caused by
glaucoma, some new methods have been introduced to better differentiate between
these changes.
SUMMARY: The interaction of myopia with glaucoma risk remains complex, largely
because of the retinal and nerve fiber layer damage that occurs in myopia alone. 
Whether to treat for glaucoma relies on the suspicion level of the clinician who 
must consider other risk factors for vision loss. Ultimately, it is the
progression of glaucoma-like findings that determines whether a myopic patient
has glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000124 
PMID: 25565367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


124. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2015 Jan-Apr;9(1):6-11. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1175. Epub 2015 Jan 15.

Achieving Target Pressures with Combined Surgery: Primary Patchless Ahmed Valve
Combined with Phacoemulsification vs Primary Phacotrabeculectomy.

Albis-Donado O(1), Sánchez-Noguera CC(2), Cárdenas-Gómez L(2), Castañeda-Diez
R(2), Thomas R(3), Gil-Carrasco F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Glaucoma, Mexican Institute of Ophthalmology Queretaro, Mexico. 
(2)Department of Glaucoma, Association for the Prevention of Blindness, Coyoacan,
Mexico. (3)Department of Glaucoma, Cataract, Clinical Epidemiology Queensland Eye
Institute, Melbourne, Australia.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the ability of phacoemulsification combined with either
primary trabeculectomy (PT) or primary Ahmed glaucoma valve implantation (PAVI)
to achieve target intraocular pressures (TIOP) in adults with primary open angle 
glaucoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Chart review of 214 adult patients operated between
January 2002 and June 2008 with a minimum follow-up of 6 months. Group 1
comprised 181 eyes of 166 patients undergoing PT while group 2 included 50 eyes
of 49 patients in combination with primary AVI. Target lOPs were pre-determined
for each patient and success was defined as an IOP at or lower than target with
or without medications. An IOP above target, loss of light perception or need for
additional procedures to lower IOP were considered a failure.
RESULTS: Mean preoperative IOP was 17.2 mm Hg in group 1 and 17.3 in group 2.
Mean postoperative IOPs were 10.2 and 9.2 on day 1, 12.2 and 11.6 at year 1, and 
10.7 in both groups at year 5. Survival rates in groups 1 and 2 were 96.7 vs 96% 
at 6 months, 89 vs 96% at 12 months, 83.5 vs 96% at 24 months and 79.4 vs 89.1%
at 36, 48 and 72 months. Transient bleb leaks were more frequent in group 1 (26
eyes, 14.4 vs 0%, p = 0.001) and transient choroidal detachments were more
frequent in group 2 (7 eyes, 3.9 vs 6 eyes, 12%, p = 0.038).
CONCLUSION: Midterm results for achieving target pressures using combined
phacoemulsification with either PT or PAVI are comparable. The profile of
complications is different for the two procedures. How to cite this article:
Albis-Donado O, Sánchez-Noguera CC, Cárdenas-Gómez L, Castañeda-Diez R, Thomas R,
Gil-Carrasco F. Achieving Target Pressures with Combined Surgery: Primary
Patchless Ahmed Valve Combined with Phacoemulsification vs Primary
Phacotrabeculectomy. J Curr Glaucoma Pract 2015;9(1):6-11.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1175 
PMCID: PMC4741140
PMID: 26997825  [PubMed]


125. BMC Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec 23;14:162. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-14-162.

Visual improvement following glaucoma surgery: a case report.

Foulsham WS, Fu L, Tatham AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion and Department of Ophthalmology, University of
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK. andrewjtatham@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy and a leading cause of
blindness. Neural losses from glaucoma are irreversible, and so the aim of
glaucoma treatment is to slow progression and minimize the risk of further
damage. Functional improvement with treatment is not expected. We report the case
of a patient who experienced a significant improvement in vision following
glaucoma surgery and review the literature regarding this phenomenon.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 64-year old male presented with a 13-month history of
gradual vision loss in the right eye to the extent that he could only perceive
hand movements. His intraocular pressure (IOP) measured 50 mmHg and he was found 
to have advanced primary open angle glaucoma. Medical treatment was commenced and
he underwent a successful right Mitomycin C-augmented trabeculectomy.
Unexpectedly he experienced marked improvement in vision post-operatively, with
improvements maintained through six months of follow-up. At his most recent visit
visual acuity was 6/18 in the affected eye. Although the mechanism of improved
vision cannot be proven it is likely that successful lowering of IOP resulted in 
some reversal of retinal ganglion cell dysfunction. Important factors may have
included his relatively young age, high IOP and short duration of symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Although rare, functional improvements may occur following
trabeculectomy. Glaucoma surgery should be offered early to those with advanced
disease, and considered even in those with reduced visual acuity.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-14-162 
PMCID: PMC4292810
PMID: 25539801  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Clinicoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Dec 4;6:523-30. doi: 10.2147/CEOR.S30697.
eCollection 2014.

Different strategies and cost-effectiveness in the treatment of primary open
angle glaucoma.

Ting NS(1), Li Yim JF(2), Ng JY(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hull Royal Infirmary, Hull, UK. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, University
Hospital Ayr, South Ayrshire, UK. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, University
Hospital Ayr, South Ayrshire, UK ; Faculty of Medicine, University of Glasgow,
Glasgow, UK.

Glaucoma is the second highest cause of blindness worldwide with an estimated
half of the glaucoma population unaware of their disease. To date, intraocular
pressure is the most important modifiable risk factor and lowering it has been
proven to reduce progression of visual field loss associated with glaucoma.
Different strategies are available to lower intraocular pressure and include
medical, laser, or surgical treatment in the form of topical or systemic
medications, argon or selective laser trabeculoplasty, and glaucoma drainage
surgery such as trabeculectomy, deep sclerectomy, or other drainage devices. The 
effectiveness of these treatments has been well documented however their
cost-effectiveness between the developed world and third world remains unclear.

DOI: 10.2147/CEOR.S30697 
PMCID: PMC4259865
PMID: 25506233  [PubMed]


127. Nail-Patella Syndrome.

Sweeney E, Hoover-Fong JE, McIntosh I.
In: Pagon RA, Adam MP, Ardinger HH, Wallace SE, Amemiya A, Bean LJH, Bird TD,
Fong CT, Mefford HC, Smith RJH, Stephens K, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet].
Seattle (WA): University of Washington, Seattle; 1993-2016.
2003 May 31.

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Nail-patella syndrome (NPS) involves a classic clinical
tetrad of changes in the nails, knees, and elbows, and the presence of iliac
horns. Nail changes are the most constant feature of NPS. Nails may be absent,
hypoplastic, or dystrophic; ridged longitudinally or horizontally; pitted;
discolored; separated into two halves by a longitudinal cleft or ridge of skin;
and thin or (less often) thickened. The patellae may be small, irregularly
shaped, or absent. Elbow abnormalities may include limitation of extension,
pronation, and supination; cubitus valgus; and antecubital pterygia. Iliac horns 
are bilateral, conical, bony processes that project posteriorly and laterally
from the central part of the iliac bones of the pelvis. Renal involvement, first 
manifest as proteinuria with or without hematuria, occurs in 30%-50% of affected 
individuals; end-stage renal disease (ESRD) occurs in about 5% of affected
individuals. Primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension occur at
increased frequency and at a younger age than in the general population.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of nail-patella syndrome is based on clinical
findings. LMX1B is the only gene in which pathogenic variants are known to cause 
NPS.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Orthopedic problems may be helped by
analgesics, physiotherapy, splinting, bracing, or surgery; MRI of joints to
identify abnormal anatomy is important prior to surgery so that appropriate
surgical treatment can be planned in advance; ACE inhibitors to control blood
pressure and possibly to slow progression of proteinuria; renal transplantation
as needed; glaucoma is treated as in the general population. Surveillance: Annual
monitoring for hypertension and renal disease; screening for glaucoma as soon as 
a child is compliant. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Chronic use of NSAIDs
because of the detrimental effect on kidney function. Pregnancy management: The
risk of developing preeclampsia may be increased in pregnant women with NPS;
hence frequent urinalysis and blood pressure measurement is recommended during
pregnancy. For women taking an ACE inhibitor, transitioning to an alternative
treatment ideally prior to pregnancy, or at least as soon as pregnancy is
recognized, is recommended to avoid potential adverse effects of ACE inhibitors
on the developing fetus.
GENETIC COUNSELING: Nail-patella syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant
manner. Eighty-eight percent of individuals with NPS have an affected parent.
Twelve percent of affected individuals have a de novo mutation. The offspring of 
an affected individual are at a 50% risk of inheriting NPS. Prenatal diagnosis
for pregnancies at increased risk is possible if the pathogenic variant in the
family has been identified.

PMID: 20301311  [PubMed]


128. Croat Med J. 2014 Oct;55(5):468-80.

Efficacy and tolerability of mono-compound topical treatments for reduction of
intraocular pressure in patients with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular
hypertension: an overview of reviews.

Daka Q, Trkulja V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vladimir Trkulja, Department of Pharmacology, Zagreb University School of
Medicine, Šalata 3, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia, vtrkulja@mef.hr.

AIM: To evaluate the existing evidence on relative efficacy and tolerability of
topical mono-compound intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering drugs in treatment of
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and ocular hypertension (OHT).
METHODS: In this systematic review of systematic reviews/meta-analyses of
randomized controlled trials a thorough and sensitive search of PubMed, Embase
and Cochrane Databases was performed. Individual study methodological quality and
quality of evidence were assessed using the AMSTAR checklist and the GRADE
system, respectively. The relationships between individual drugs were evaluated
based on the best available evidence.
RESULTS: Of the 133 initial non-duplicate records, 16 studies met the inclusion
criteria. Five achieved an overall "moderate" (none achieved "high") quality of
evidence and evaluated prostaglandin analogues (PGAs) - latanoprost, travoprost, 
and bimatoprost; timolol; "other beta-blockers;" carbonic anhydrase inhibitors
(CAI) as a group or dorzolamide separately; and brimonidine. "Moderate quality"
refers to efficacy and incidence of conjunctival hyperemia. Quality of evidence
regarding other tolerability aspects was low. PGAs should be considered
equivalent regarding efficacy, but latanoprost was relevantly better tolerated
than the other two. Non-PGA compounds did not relevantly differ between each
other in either efficacy or safety. Timolol and brimonidine were relevantly less 
effective than all PGAs. The same was true for CAI vs bimatoprost. Regarding
tolerability, timolol was superior to all PGAs and brimonidine and CAI were
superior to bimatoprost.
CONCLUSION: No high quality evidence on relative efficacy and tolerability of the
most commonly used mono-compound IOP-lowering drugs for POAG/OHT exists. Moderate
quality evidence indicates latanoprost as a treatment with the most favorable
trade-off between benefits and harms.


PMCID: PMC4228301
PMID: 25358880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Int J Ophthalmol. 2014 Oct 18;7(5):879-90. doi:
10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2014.05.26. eCollection 2014.

Fixed combination of latanoprost and timolol vs the individual components for
primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension: a systematic review and
meta-analysis.

Xing Y(1), Jiang FG(1), Li T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430022, Hubei Province, China.
(2)Department of Urology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430022, Hubei Province, China.

AIM: To assess the effects of the fixed combination of 0.005% latanoprost and
0.5% timolol (FCLT) vs their individual components for primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) and ocular hypertension (OHT).
METHODS: After searched PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library and SCI, all
randomized controlled clinical trials (RCTs) and cross-over studies were
included. The control groups were the mono therapy or the concomitant therapy of 
latanoprost and timolol. The outcomes were visual field defect, optic atrophy,
mean intraocular pressure (IOP) and IOP fluctuation. The analysis was carried out
in RevMan version 5.1 software.
RESULTS: The post-intervention mean IOP of FCLT was significantly lower compared 
to timolol [mean difference (MD) -2.92, 95%CI -3.28 to -2.55, P<0.00001] and
latanoprost (MD -1.11, 95%CI -1.51 to -0.72, P<0.00001). The post-intervention
IOP fluctuation was also significantly lower compared to timolol (MD -0.88, 95%CI
-1.23 to -0.53, P<0.00001) and latanoprost (MD -0.63, 95%CI -1.04 to -0.22,
P=0.002). The mean IOP was higher in FCLT morning dose group than the one in
unfixed combination of 0.005% latanoprost and 0.5% timolol (UFCLT) (MD 1.10,
95%CI 0.81 to 1.39, P<0.00001). Otherwise, there was no difference between FCLT
evening dose group and UFCLT (MD 0.34, 95% CI -0.01 to 0.69, P=0.06). There was
no statistical difference for the incidence of visual field defect and optic
atrophy between FCLT and the monotherapy of components.
CONCLUSION: A better IOP lowering effect has been demonstrated for FCLT compared 
to the mono therapy of components. The IOP lowering effect was worse for FCLT
morning dose and almost same for FCLT evening dose compared to the UFCLT. We need
more long-term high quality RCTs to demonstrate the outcomes of visual field
defect and optic atrophy.

DOI: 10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2014.05.26 
PMCID: PMC4206899
PMID: 25349811  [PubMed]


130. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2015 May-Jun;43(4):320-7. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12452. Epub 2014 
Nov 4.

Intraocular pressure-lowering medications and long-term outcomes of selective
laser trabeculoplasty.

Woo DM(1), Healey PR(2,)(3), Graham SL(3,)(4), Goldberg I(1,)(5,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sydney Eye Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia. (2)Sydney Medical School, Center for Vision Research, Westmead
Millennium Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Eye Associates, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (4)Australian School of
Advanced Medicine, School of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Macquarie
University, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (5)Discipline of Ophthalmology,
University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

BACKGROUND: To investigate the effects of current intraocular pressure-lowering
medications on the efficacy of selective laser trabeculoplasty.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review of records from an urban glaucoma clinic in
Sydney, Australia.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients who received their first selective laser trabeculoplasty
between 2002 and 2005 were studied (grouped from 0 to 3 according to the number
of pre-selective laser trabeculoplasty medications, and followed for 5 years).
Those with previous argon laser therapy, trabeculectomy or angle-closure were
excluded.
METHODS: Selective laser trabeculoplasty (Ellex) used to deliver 180 or 360
degree of treatment, under the same protocol.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Responders were defined by ≥20% reduction from baseline
intraocular pressure. Data were censored when pressure-lowering intervention was 
required. The mean intraocular pressure, survivor, response rate, number and type
of medications were compared.
RESULTS: There were 206 patients with ocular hypertension, primary,
pseudo-exfoliation, or pigmentary glaucoma who used none (n = 20), one (n = 33), 
two (n = 61) or three or more (n = 92) pre-selective laser trabeculoplasty
topical anti-glaucoma medications. The mean baseline intraocular pressures for
each group was 23.7, 22.2, 20.7 and 20.4 mmHg, respectively (P = 0.061).
Post-treatment mean intraocular pressure was 17.9, 17.7, 15.5, and 15.7 mmHg;
percentage reduction was similar between groups (23.6-25.6%, P = 0.20).
Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed comparable survival rates across groups
(P = 0.445). At 60 months, 11.1, 17.1, 30.5 and 11.5% of responders remained in
each group. Higher proportions of patients in groups 2 and 3 required further
laser or surgery.
CONCLUSION: The number of pre-selective laser trabeculoplasty medications did not
affect the intraocular pressure-lowering effectiveness of selective laser
trabeculoplasty; however, groups on more medications required more
pressure-lowering interventions.

© 2014 Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12452 
PMID: 25287743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


131. J Glaucoma. 2014 Oct-Nov;23(8 Suppl 1):S51-4. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000117.

Metabolomics/Proteomics strategies used to identify biomarkers for exfoliation
glaucoma.

McNally S(1), O'Brien CJ.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Mater Misericordiae University Hospital †UCD
School of Medicine and Medical Science, University College Dublin, Dublin,
Ireland.

It is currently estimated that 60 to 70 million people worldwide are affected by 
open-angle glaucoma and the majority of patients who present to clinic have
raised intraocular pressure, visual field loss, and cupping of the optic nerve.
Although exfoliation glaucoma (XFG) correlates with age, it is the most common
cause of secondary open-angle glaucoma in the world and, with elevated
intraocular pressure at onset, this disease runs an aggressive clinical course.
XFG differs from primary open-angle glaucoma, in that patients have a diminished 
response to medication, show accelerated rates of disease progression, and
therefore have a higher need for surgery. Here we highlight some major findings
in the literature, which relate to the search for biomarkers of XFG by
metabolomics and proteomics strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000117 
PMID: 25275907  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


132. J Glaucoma. 2014 Oct-Nov;23(8 Suppl 1):S15-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000106.

The trabecular meshwork in normal eyes and in exfoliation glaucoma.

Rasmussen CA(1), Kaufman PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, School of Medicine & Public
Health, Clinical Science Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI.

Trabecular meshwork (TM) and ciliary muscle contraction and relaxation function
together to provide control of outflow. The active role the TM plays in the
regulation of intraocular pressure (IOP) is mediated by cytoskeletal and
contractility mechanisms as well as signal/transduction factors that mediate its 
response to stressors. This complex system is altered with age and the glaucomas,
and it can be difficult to differentiate between the various etiological
effects/agents. Factors such as a compromised antioxidant defense system and
altered extracellular matrix metabolism are known to contribute to impaired
outflow and may be common to primary open-angle glaucoma, exfoliation syndrome,
and exfoliation glaucoma (XFG). Genes differentially expressed in diseased ocular
tissue or in cultured HTM cell models, and thus implicated in the disease
process, include SOD2, ALDH1A1, MGST1, LOX, and LOXL1, elements of the
transforming growth factor-β/bone morphogenetic protein/SMAD signaling pathways, 
connective tissue growth factor, matrix metalloproteinase-2, a tissue inhibitor
of metalloproteinases also known as TIMP-2, and endothelin-1 (ET-1). In
exfoliation syndrome and XFG fibrillar, proteinaceous extracellular material is
produced in excess and accumulates in both outflow pathways but does not always
lead to elevated IOP. Locally produced material may accumulate in the
intertrabecular spaces, juxtacanalicular (JCT) meshwork, and the inner wall of
Schlemm's canal as a result of a combination of both excessive synthesis and
insufficient degradation. An increase in JCT plaque and decreased cellularity in 
the TM are thought to contribute to decreased outflow facility in glaucoma
patients, but XFG patient specimens show reduced extracellular plaque material in
the JCT, and the structural integrity of trabecular endothelial cells is mostly
retained and cellularity remains unchanged. The distinctions between
causes/effects of structural changes leading to reduced outflow/elevated IOP are 
important for developing effective, individualized treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000106 
PMCID: PMC4348034
PMID: 25275898  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Mar;232(3):303-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1383014. Epub 
2014 Oct 1.

[Minimally invasive glaucoma surgery using the trabectome].

[Article in German]

Wecker T(1), Jordan JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Augenheilkunde, Universitätsklinikum Freiburg.

The main barrier reducing outflow of aqueous humor in open angle glaucomas is the
juxtacanalicular trabecular meshwork. The trabectome removes this
pathophysiologically altered tissue by electroablation, thus allowing for the
collector channels draining Schlemm's canal to directly communicate with the
anterior chamber. In studies published so far, about 30% decrease of intraocular 
pressure and a simultaneous 42% reduction of pressure-lowering eyedrops could be 
achieved in primary and secondary open angle glaucomas. A clear cornea tunnel is 
used to advance the trabectome to the trabecular meshwork, leaving the
conjunctiva unaffected. Hence minimally invasive chamber angle surgery using this
device is in particular suitable for patients with an altered ocular surface.
Lowering of intraocular pressure and reduction of needed topical medication seems
to be distinct in pseudoexfoliative glaucoma. Surgery with the trabectome and
phacoemulsification can easily be combined in one procedure. Using a minimally
invasive approach, the complication profile of the trabectome is rather
advantageous, not exceeding the general risks of globe-opening surgery.
Ab-interno trabeculotomy is a safe and effective method for treatment of patients
with primary or secondary open angle glaucomas and moderate target pressures.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1383014 
PMID: 25272086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Clin Interv Aging. 2014 Sep 16;9:1563-71. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S67263. eCollection
2014.

The current research status of normal tension glaucoma.

Mi XS(1), Yuan TF(2), So KF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinan
University, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China ; Department of Anatomy, Li Ka 
Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, People's
Republic of China. (2)School of Psychology, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing,
People's Republic of China ; Department of Ophthalmology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of 
Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, People's Republic of China ; Department of Ophthalmology, Li Ka 
Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, People's
Republic of China ; GHM Institute of CNS Regeneration, Jinan University,
Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.

Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is a progressive optic neuropathy that mimics
primary open-angle glaucoma, but lacks the findings of elevated intraocular
pressure or other mitigating factors that can lead to optic neuropathy. The
present review summarized the causes, genetics, and mechanisms underlying NTG in 
both animal models and human patients. We also proposed that the neurovascular
unit is a therapeutic target for NTG management.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S67263 
PMCID: PMC4172068
PMID: 25258525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep 9;8:1767-71. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S67933. eCollection
2014.

How useful is visual field testing in an African glaucoma clinic?

Lenake M(1), Cook C(1), Mustak H(1), Du Toit N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology, Department of Surgery, Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape
Town, South Africa ; The University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa.

PURPOSE: To investigate the usefulness of visual field testing in the diagnosis
and subsequent management of glaucoma in a specialist glaucoma clinic at Groote
Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.
METHODS: A retrospective case note review of 344 patients who attended the
glaucoma clinic between January and June 2010.
RESULTS: The study population consisted of 201 (58%) females and 143 (42%) males.
The diagnoses included 207 (60%) cases with primary open-angle glaucoma, 58 (17%)
cases with chronic angle closure glaucoma, 46 (13%) cases with secondary
glaucoma, 17 (5%) cases with normal pressure glaucoma, ten (3%) cases with ocular
hypertension, and six (2%) glaucoma suspects. Visual field testing contributed to
the diagnosis of glaucoma in only 34 (10%) cases. A total number of 2,604 fields 
were performed. Of these fields, 1,931 (74%) were reliable. A baseline was
reached in only 141 (53%) patients. There was evidence of field progression in
only 24 (9%) cases. Changes to glaucoma treatment were based on inadequate
control of intraocular pressure alone in 309 (90%) patients. Visual field
progression contributed to changes in treatment in only 15 (4%) cases.
CONCLUSION: Visual fields are not used in the diagnosis and management of
glaucoma in the majority of patients in our clinic. Patients present with
advanced disease, which is easily diagnosed without the use of visual fields.
Progression of fields seldom contributes to monitoring and intraocular pressure
is mainly used to monitor the adequacy of treatment.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S67933 
PMCID: PMC4164284
PMID: 25228794  [PubMed]


136. J Cell Physiol. 2015 Mar;230(3):510-25. doi: 10.1002/jcp.24826.

The dysfunction of the trabecular meshwork during glaucoma course.

Saccà SC(1), Pulliero A, Izzotti A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Head/Neck Pathologies, St Martino Hospital, Ophthalmology Unit, 
Genoa, Italy.

Primary open angle glaucoma is a multi-tissue disease that targets, in an
ascending order, the trabecular meshwork, the optic nerve head, the lateral
geniculate nuclei, and the visual cortex. Oxidative stress and vascular damage
play major roles in triggering apoptotic cell loss in these tissues. Molecular
alterations occurring in the ocular anterior chamber during the early course of
glaucoma trigger this cell loss. These molecular events are mainly of endogenous 
origin and related to the long-term accumulation of oxidative damages arising
from mitochondrial failure and endothelial dysfunction. This situation results in
decreased antioxidant defences in aqueous humour and apoptosis activation in
trabecular meshwork cells as triggered by severe mitochondrial damage altering
tissue function and integrity. The presence of neural proteins in glaucomatous
aqueous humour indicate that a molecular interconnection exists between the
anterior and the posterior chamber tissues. Trabecular meshwork and lamina
cribrosa share a common neuro-ectodermal embryological, which contribute to
explain the interconnection between anterior and the posterior chamber during
glaucoma pathogenesis. During glaucoma, proteins deriving from the damage
occurring in endothelial trabecular meshwork cells are released into aqueous
humour. Accordingly, aqueous humour composition is characterised in glaucomatous 
patients by the presence of proteins deriving from apoptosis activation,
mitochondrial damage, loss of intercellular connections, antioxidant decrease.
Many questions remain unanswered, but molecular events illuminate TM damage and
indicate that trabecular cell protection plays a role in the treatment and
prevention of glaucoma.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.24826 
PMID: 25216121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Ann Pharmacother. 2014 Dec;48(12):1585-93. doi: 10.1177/1060028014548569. Epub
2014 Sep 2.

Comparative efficacy and tolerability of topical prostaglandin analogues for
primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Lin L(1), Zhao YJ(2), Chew PT(3), Sng CC(3), Wong HT(4), Yip LW(4), Wu TS(5),
Bautista D(6), Teng M(2), Khoo AL(2), Lim BP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacy & Therapeutics Office, Group Corporate Development, National
Healthcare Group, Singapore liang_lin@nhg.com.sg. (2)Pharmacy & Therapeutics
Office, Group Corporate Development, National Healthcare Group, Singapore.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, National University Hospital, Singapore.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Singapore. (5)Department 
of Pharmacy, National University Hospital, Singapore. (6)Singapore Clinical
Research Institute.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the efficacy and tolerability of 4
prostaglandin analogues (PGAs) as first-line monotherapies for intraocular
pressure (IOP) lowering in adult patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or
ocular hypertension.
DATA SOURCES: A literature search was performed in PubMed (1965-June 2013) and
the Cochrane Library (1980-June 2013) using the search terms ocular hypertension,
open-angle glaucoma, prostaglandin analogues, bimatoprost, latanoprost,
tafluprost, and travoprost. Additional studies were searched from the reference
lists of identified publications.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: In all, 32 randomized controlled trials
comparing between PGAs (bimatoprost 0.03%, latanoprost 0.005%, tafluprost
0.0015%, and travoprost 0.004%) or PGA with timolol were selected.
DATA SYNTHESIS: A network meta-analysis was conducted. Using timolol as
reference, the relative risks (RRs) of achieving treatment success, defined as
the proportion of patients achieving at least 30% IOP reduction, with 95% CIs,
were as follows: bimatoprost, 1.59 (1.28-1.98); latanoprost, 1.32 (1.00-1.74);
travoprost, 1.33 (1.03-1.72); and tafluprost, 1.10 (0.85-1.42). The mean IOP
reductions after 1 month were 1.98 (1.50-2.47), 1.01 (0.55-1.46), 1.08
(0.59-1.57), and 0.46 (-0.41 to 1.33) mm Hg, respectively, and the results were
sustained at 3 months. Bimatoprost was associated with the highest risk of
developing hyperemia, whereas latanoprost had the lowest risk, with RRs (95% CI) 
of 4.66 (3.49-6.23) and 2.30 (1.76-3.00), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Bimatoprost achieved the highest efficacy in terms of IOP reduction,
whereas latanoprost had the most favorable tolerability profile. This review
serves to guide selection of the optimal PGA agent for individual patient care in
clinical practice.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1060028014548569 
PMID: 25184309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


138. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2014 Sep-Dec;8(3):107-12. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1172. Epub 2015 Jan 15.

Screening First Degree Relatives of Persons with Primary Open Angle Glaucoma in
India.

Rajendrababu S(1), Gupta N(2), Vijayakumar B(3), Kumaragurupari R(4), Krishnadas 
SR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Senior Glaucoma Consultant, Department of Glaucoma, Aravind Eye Hospital,
Madurai Tamil Nadu, India. (2)Mediacal Officer, Aravind Eye Care System, Madurai,
Tamil Nadu, India. (3)Biostatistcian, Aravind Eye Care System, Madurai, Tamil
Nadu, India. (4)Librarian, Aravind Eye Care System, Madurai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(5)Professor, Department of Glaucoma Services, Aravind Eye Care System Madurai,
Tamil Nadu, India.

PURPOSE: To report the results of screening first degree relatives of persons
identified with primary open angle glaucoma in a tertiary eye hospital glaucoma
services.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional study of first degree relatives of persons with primary
open angle glaucoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: First degree relatives of patients identified with primary
open angle glaucoma were invited to participate in a screening evaluation in the 
base hospital to detect glaucoma. All participating individuals had comprehensive
eye examination including vision screening, refraction, slit-lamp biomicroscopy, 
applanation tonometry, gonioscopy, frequency doubling peri-metry and dilated
fundus examination. Persons with definite and suspected glaucoma were subject to 
full threshold automated perimetry.
RESULTS: A 514 first degree relatives of 346 persons with primary open angle
glaucoma, of 4972 individuals who were invited to participate attended the
screening examination (Response Rate 7%). Fifty-five percent of those who
attended were males and mean age of participants was 56.8 years. Sixty-eight
relatives (13.3% of those screened) were detected to have definite glaucoma.
Sixty percent of those detected with definite glaucoma were siblings. Fifteen
percent of siblings, 4% of off-springs and 20% of parents who attended the
screening examination had definite open angle glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: Prevalence of open angle glaucoma amongst first degree relatives of
persons with glaucoma is higher than in the general population as reported in
previous studies. Significant barriers, however, exist in the uptake of eye care 
services among relatives of persons known to have primary open angle glaucoma.
How to cite this article: Rajendrababu S, Gupta N, Vijayakumar B, Kumaragurupari 
R, Krishnadas SR. Screening First Degree Relatives of Persons with Primary Open
Angle Glaucoma in India. J Curr Glaucoma Pract 2014;8(3):107-112.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1172 
PMCID: PMC4741132
PMID: 26997821  [PubMed]


139. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 19;9(8):e102972. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0102972.
eCollection 2014.

Diabetes mellitus as a risk factor for open-angle glaucoma: a systematic review
and meta-analysis.

Zhou M(1), Wang W(2), Huang W(2), Zhang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai First People's Hospital, School of
Medicine, Shanghai JiaoTong University, Shanghai, China; Shanghai Key Laboratory 
of Fundus Disease, Shanghai, China. (2)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, State Key
Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, People's Republic
of China.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the association between diabetes mellitus (DM) and
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: This is a systematic review and meta-analysis of case-control and cohort
studies. The literature search included two databases (PubMed and Embase) and the
reference lists of the retrieved studies. Separate meta-analyses for case-control
studies and cohort studies were conducted using random-effects models, with
results reported as adjusted odds ratios (ORs) and relative risks (RRs),
respectively.
RESULTS: Thirteen studies--seven case-control studies and six population-based
cohort studies--were included in this meta-analysis. The pooled RR of the
association between DM and POAG based on the risk estimates of the six cohort
studies was 1.40 (95% CI, 1.25-1.57). The pooled OR of the association between DM
and POAG based on the risk estimates of the seven case-control studies was 1.49
(95% CI, 1.17-1.88). There was considerable heterogeneity among the case-control 
studies that reported an association between DM mellitus and POAG (P<0.001) and
no significant heterogeneity among the cohort studies (P = 0.377). After omitting
the case-control study that contributed significantly to the heterogeneity, the
pooled OR for the association between DM and POAG was 1.35 (95% CI, 1.06-1.74).
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals with DM have an increased risk of developing POAG.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0102972 
PMCID: PMC4138056
PMID: 25137059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Digit J Ophthalmol. 2014 Jun 30;20(2):20-8. doi: 10.5693/djo.01.2014.02.002.
eCollection 2014.

A survey of preoperative blood tests in primary open-angle glaucoma patients
versus cataract surgery patients.

Cohen LP(1), Wong J(1), Jiwani AZ(1), Greenstein SH(2), Brauner SC(3), Chen
SC(2), Turalba AV(1), Chen TC(1), Shen L(1), Rhee DJ(1), Wiggs JL(1), Kang JH(4),
Loomis S(1), Pasquale LR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Massachusetts Eye and Ear and Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts; (2)Comprehensive Ophthalmology Service, Massachusetts Eye 
and Ear and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; (3)Glaucoma Service,
Massachusetts Eye and Ear and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; ;
Comprehensive Ophthalmology Service, Massachusetts Eye and Ear and Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; (4)Channing Division of Network Medicine, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts. (5)Glaucoma Service,
Massachusetts Eye and Ear and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; ;
Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts.

PURPOSE: To investigate biomarker differences in routine preoperative blood tests
performed on primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) case and control patients
presenting for anterior segment eye surgery.
METHODS: POAG cases and age-related cataract surgery patients (controls) who
underwent anterior segment surgery at Massachusetts Eye and Ear from January 2009
through March 2012 were identified by retrospective record review. Patients with 
diabetes mellitus, secondary glaucoma, and cataract due to trauma or steroid
exposure were excluded. Data on demographic features, preoperative
ophthalmological and medical diagnosis, blood pressure, anthropometric measures, 
basic metabolic panel, and complete blood count were extracted from the medical
records. Univariate differences in lab values between POAG cases and controls
were assessed using unpaired t tests. Multivariate logistic regression analysis
was completed to determine the independent associations of biomarkers with POAG.
RESULTS: A total of 150 cases and 150 age-related controls were included. In
multivariate analysis, higher AG was inversely associated with POAG (odds ratio
[OR] = 0.90; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.80-1.00), and higher Cl- level was
positively associated with POAG (OR = 1.15; 95% CI, 1.02-1.29). The lower AG in
POAG patients could be explained by higher IgG levels as the available data in
post hoc analysis showed a nonsignificant trend toward higher IgG in cases
compared to controls (17 vs 23; 1142 ± 284 mg/dl vs 1028 ± 291 mg/dl; P = 0.22). 
Furthermore, in multivariable analysis, a higher red blood cell count was also
associated with POAG (OR = 1.91; 95% CI, 1.11-3.28).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with POAG presenting for anterior segment surgery had a
lower AG compared to age-related cataract surgery patients. The etiology of this 
reduced gap is unclear but the possible contribution of IgG warrants further
exploration. The etiology of higher red blood cell counts in POAG cases is
unknown and deserves further exploration.

DOI: 10.5693/djo.01.2014.02.002 
PMCID: PMC4120802
PMID: 25097461  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


141. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2014 Aug;40(8):1263-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2014.06.020.

Aqueous outflow: segmental and distal flow.

Swaminathan SS(1), Oh DJ(1), Kang MH(1), Rhee DJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)From Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology (Swaminathan),
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, and the Department of
Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences (Oh, Kang, Rhee), Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. (2)From Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences
and Technology (Swaminathan), Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, and 
the Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences (Oh, Kang, Rhee), Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Electronic address: dougrhee@aol.com.

The elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) of primary open-angle glaucoma is caused 
by impaired outflow of aqueous humor through the trabecular meshwork. Within the 
juxtacanalicular region, alterations of both extracellular matrix homeostasis and
the cellular tone of trabecular meshwork endothelial and the inner wall of
Schlemm canal cells affect outflow. Newer pharmacologic agents that target
trabecular meshwork and Schlemm canal cell cytoskeleton lower IOP. Aqueous
drainage occurs nonhomogenously with greater flow going through certain portions 
of the TM and less going through other portions-a concept known as segmental
flow, which is theoretically the result of outflow being dependent on the
presence of discrete pores within Schlemm canal. The limited long-term success of
trabecular meshwork bypass surgeries implicates the potential impact of
resistance in Schlemm canal itself and collector channels. Additionally, others
have observed that outflow occurs preferentially near collector channels. These
distal structures may be more important to aqueous outflow than previously
believed.FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE: Dr. Rhee is a consultant to Aerie Pharmaceuticals,
Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Allegan, Inc., Aquesys, Inc., Glaukos Corp., Ivantis,
Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. and Santen, Inc., and has
received research funding from Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Merck Sharp & Dohme
Corp., and Ivantis, Inc. No other author has a financial or proprietary interest 
in any material or method mentioned.

Copyright © 2014 ASCRS and ESCRS. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2014.06.020 
PMCID: PMC4151118
PMID: 25088623  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2014 May;50(5):343-8.

[Meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials comparing selective laser
trabeculoplasty with prostaglandin analogue in the primary treatment of
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertention].

[Article in Chinese]

Peng W(1), Zhong X, Yu M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-Sen University, State Key Laboratory of
Ophthalmology, Guangzhou 510060, China. (2)Email:yuminbin@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT)
versus prostaglandinanalogue (PGA) in the treatment of open angle glaucoma (OAG) 
and ocular hypertension (OHT).
METHODS: Literature analysis.Systematic review of randomized controlled trials
comparing SLT versus PGA, identified by searching literatures including Medline
(January, 1966-December, 2012), EMBASE Reviews (January, 1974-December, 2012)
OVID Evidence-Based Medicine Reviews (January, 1966-December, 2012), Chinese
BioMedical Literature Database SinoMed (January, 1966-December, 2012), and CNKI
(January, 1999-December, 2012). RevMan 5.0 was used to do meta-analysis.
RESULTS: Three publications reporting 3 trials, 161 participants (231 eyes) with 
OHT or OAG were included for meta-analysis.IOP reduction favored PGA group,
weighted mean difference (WMD) = -0.85[1 mmHg = 0.133 kPa; 95% confidence
interval (CI) (-1.43 to -0.27), no significant heterogeneity present (P = 0.82,
I² = 0%)].Success rates are equal in two groups [OR = 0.70, 95%CI = (0.49 to
1.19) , no significant heterogeneity present (P = 0.58, I² = 0%)]. Eyes underwent
additional antiglaumatous interventions favored SLT group, OR = 1.11 [95%CI =
(0.60 to 2.06), significant heterogeneity present, (P = 0.08, I² = 61%)].
CONCLUSIONS: As primary therapy of OAG or OHT, SLT is no more effective than PGA 
in success rate. IOP reduction affected by SLT is not effective than PGA.
Compared with PGA, SLT can reduce the use of anti-glaucoma medications.


PMID: 25052803  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep;25(5):386-93. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000090.

Genome-wide association study success in ophthalmology.

Mackey DA(1), Hewitt AW.

Author information: 
(1)aLions Eye Institute, Centre for Ophthalmology and Visual Science, University 
of Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia bCentre for Eye Research
Australia, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, University of Melbourne,
Melbourne, Victoria cSchool of Medicine, Menzies Research Institute Tasmania,
University of Tasmania, Hobart, Tasmania, Australia.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Much progress in our understanding of the genetic profile of
many ophthalmic diseases has been made over the last decade. Identification of
novel gene associations allows insight into the mechanisms of disease and
potentially enables the identification of individuals at increased risk, as well 
as facilitating the development of new treatments. We highlight key recent
discoveries using the genome-wide association study design.
RECENT FINDINGS: Over the last 2 years, we have seen major international
collaborations successfully conduct genome-wide association study to identify
genetic pathways associated with eye diseases, such as myopia, age-related
macular degeneration and glaucoma. Similarly other studies have identified and
confirmed genes associated with ocular biometry or disease-specific
endophenotypes.
SUMMARY: Our understanding of the genetic architecture of common eye diseases,
such as myopia, age-related macular degeneration and glaucoma, is rapidly
expanding. With reducing costs of next-generation sequencing, we expect a
transition to large-scale interrogation at the whole exome and genome level,
which will enable the identification of rare variants which confer a level of
sensitivity and specificity to predict risk that will allow us to further
understand, predict and intervene in genetic-based eye diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000090 
PMID: 25014751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Ophthalmology. 2014 Nov;121(11):2081-90. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.05.013. Epub 
2014 Jun 26.

Global prevalence of glaucoma and projections of glaucoma burden through 2040: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Tham YC(1), Li X(2), Wong TY(1), Quigley HA(3), Aung T(1), Cheng CY(4).

Author information: 
(1)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore;
Department of Ophthalmology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University
of Singapore and National University Health System, Singapore. (2)Singapore Eye
Research Institute, Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore; Department of
Statistics and Applied Probability, National University of Singapore, Singapore. 
(3)Glaucoma Service and Dana Center for Preventive Ophthalmology, Wilmer
Ophthalmological Institute, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland. (4)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye Centre,
Singapore; Department of Ophthalmology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National
University of Singapore and National University Health System, Singapore; Saw
Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore and National 
University Health System, Singapore; Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore.
Electronic address: ching-yu_cheng@nuhs.edu.sg.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2015 Jul;122(7):e40-1.
    Ophthalmology. 2015 Jul;122(7):e41-2.

PURPOSE: Glaucoma is the leading cause of global irreversible blindness. Present 
estimates of global glaucoma prevalence are not up-to-date and focused mainly on 
European ancestry populations. We systematically examined the global prevalence
of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG), 
and projected the number of affected people in 2020 and 2040.
DESIGN: Systematic review and meta-analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: Data from 50 population-based studies (3770 POAG cases among
140,496 examined individuals and 786 PACG cases among 112 398 examined
individuals).
METHODS: We searched PubMed, Medline, and Web of Science for population-based
studies of glaucoma prevalence published up to March 25, 2013. Hierarchical
Bayesian approach was used to estimate the pooled glaucoma prevalence of the
population aged 40-80 years along with 95% credible intervals (CrIs). Projections
of glaucoma were estimated based on the United Nations World Population
Prospects. Bayesian meta-regression models were performed to assess the
association between the prevalence of POAG and the relevant factors.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalence and projection numbers of glaucoma cases.
RESULTS: The global prevalence of glaucoma for population aged 40-80 years is
3.54% (95% CrI, 2.09-5.82). The prevalence of POAG is highest in Africa (4.20%;
95% CrI, 2.08-7.35), and the prevalence of PACG is highest in Asia (1.09%; 95%
CrI, 0.43-2.32). In 2013, the number of people (aged 40-80 years) with glaucoma
worldwide was estimated to be 64.3 million, increasing to 76.0 million in 2020
and 111.8 million in 2040. In the Bayesian meta-regression model, men were more
likely to have POAG than women (odds ratio [OR], 1.36; 95% CrI, 1.23-1.52), and
after adjusting for age, gender, habitation type, response rate, and year of
study, people of African ancestry were more likely to have POAG than people of
European ancestry (OR, 2.80; 95% CrI, 1.83-4.06), and people living in urban
areas were more likely to have POAG than those in rural areas (OR, 1.58; 95% CrI,
1.19-2.04).
CONCLUSIONS: The number of people with glaucoma worldwide will increase to 111.8 
million in 2040, disproportionally affecting people residing in Asia and Africa. 
These estimates are important in guiding the designs of glaucoma screening,
treatment, and related public health strategies.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.05.013 
PMID: 24974815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Clin Ophthalmol. 2014 May 23;8:1031-8. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S46298. eCollection
2014.

An observational study of bimatoprost 0.01% in patients on prior intraocular
pressure-lowering therapy: the Canadian Lumigan(®) RC Early Analysis Review
(CLEAR) trial.

Crichton AC(1), Nixon DR(2), Simonyi S(3), Bhogal M(3), Sigouin CS(4), Discepola 
MJ(5), Hutnik CM(6), Baptiste DC(3), Yan DB(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(2)Private practice, Barrie, ON, Canada. (3)Medical Affairs, Allergan Inc.,
Markham, ON, Canada. (4)CLINWest Research, Burlington, ON, Canada. (5)Department 
of Ophthalmology, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada. (6)Department of
Ophthalmology and Pathology, Ivey Eye Institute, London, ON, Canada.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the ocular hyperemia and intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering
efficacy of bimatoprost 0.01% in subjects with elevated IOP due to primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) or ocular hypertension (OHT) in a real-world clinical 
setting.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: This open-label, 12-week, observational study was conducted
at 67 centers in Canada. Subjects with elevated IOP due to POAG or OHT instilled 
bimatoprost 0.01% as monotherapy once daily. Ocular hyperemia was graded by the
investigator at baseline, week 6, and week 12 using a standardized photographic
5-point grading scale. Change in IOP from baseline was also evaluated at these
time points. This analysis includes the subgroup of 268 subjects who had been
previously treated with latanoprost 0.005%, bimatoprost 0.03%, travoprost 0.004%,
and travoprost 0.004% with SofZia™ or nonselective beta-adrenergic receptor
blockers prior to the study.
RESULTS: After 12 weeks of treatment with 0.01% bimatoprost, ocular hyperemia was
graded as none-to-mild hyperemia (grades 0, +0.5, or +1) for 94.1% of subjects
and as moderate-to-severe hyperemia (grades +2 or +3) for 5.9%. No statistically 
significant shifts in ocular hyperemia ratings were observed at week 12 for any
of the prior IOP-lowering therapies except bimatoprost 0.03%, in which 20.8% of
subjects experienced an improvement. The mean percentage change from baseline IOP
at week 12 following the switch to bimatoprost 0.01% monotherapy ranged from
-2.3%±17.3% to -26.3%±12.4%. Furthermore, the decreased mean percentage change
from baseline IOP was statistically significant across all prior IOP-lowering
medications, except for bimatoprost 0.03% at the 6- and 12-week visits and
travoprost 0.004% at the 6-week visit.
CONCLUSION: This observational study demonstrates that bimatoprost 0.01% was well
tolerated among POAG and OHT subjects who switched from prior IOP-lowering
medication. Furthermore, a switch in ocular hypertensive treatment to bimatoprost
0.01% was associated with an additional 10%-15% reduction in IOP.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S46298 
PMCID: PMC4043802
PMID: 24920879  [PubMed]


146. Front Mol Neurosci. 2014 May 19;7:38. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2014.00038. eCollection 
2014.

Regulation of intraocular pressure by soluble and membrane guanylate cyclases and
their role in glaucoma.

Buys ES(1), Potter LR(2), Pasquale LR(3), Ksander BR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesia, Critical Care, and Pain Medicine, Anesthesia Center 
for Critical Care Research, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General
Hospital Boston, MA, USA. (2)Department of Pharmacology, University of Minnesota 
Medical School Minneapolis, MN, USA. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Glaucoma
Service Mass Eye and Ear Infirmary and Channing Division of Network Medicine,
Harvard Medical School, Brigham and Women's Hospital Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Schepens Eye
Research Institute, Harvard Medical School Boston, MA, USA.

Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy characterized by visual field defects 
that ultimately lead to irreversible blindness (Alward, 2000; Anderson et al.,
2006). By the year 2020, an estimated 80 million people will have glaucoma, 11
million of which will be bilaterally blind. Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is
the most common type of glaucoma. Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) is
currently the only risk factor amenable to treatment. How IOP is regulated and
can be modulated remains a topic of active investigation. Available therapies,
mostly geared toward lowering IOP, offer incomplete protection, and POAG often
goes undetected until irreparable damage has been done, highlighting the need for
novel therapeutic approaches, drug targets, and biomarkers (Heijl et al., 2002;
Quigley, 2011). In this review, the role of soluble (nitric oxide (NO)-activated)
and membrane-bound, natriuretic peptide (NP)-activated guanylate cyclases that
generate the secondary signaling molecule cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)
in the regulation of IOP and in the pathophysiology of POAG will be discussed.

DOI: 10.3389/fnmol.2014.00038 
PMCID: PMC4032937
PMID: 24904270  [PubMed]


147. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Aug;30(6):447-63. doi: 10.1089/jop.2014.0013. Epub
2014 Jun 5.

Matricellular proteins in the trabecular meshwork: review and update.

Chatterjee A(1), Villarreal G Jr, Rhee DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University Hospitals Eye
Institute, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine , Cleveland, Ohio.

Abstract Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause of blindness
worldwide, and intraocular pressure (IOP) is an important modifiable risk factor.
IOP is a function of aqueous humor production and aqueous humor outflow, and it
is thought that prolonged IOP elevation leads to optic nerve damage over time.
Within the trabecular meshwork (TM), the eye's primary drainage system for
aqueous humor, matricellular proteins generally allow cells to modulate their
attachments with and alter the characteristics of their surrounding extracellular
matrix (ECM). It is now well established that ECM turnover in the TM affects
outflow facility, and matricellular proteins are emerging as significant players 
in IOP regulation. The formalized study of matricellular proteins in TM has
gained increased attention. Secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC),
myocilin, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), and thrombospondin-1 and -2
(TSP-1 and -2) have been localized to the TM, and a growing body of evidence
suggests that these matricellular proteins play an important role in IOP
regulation and possibly the pathophysiology of POAG. As evidence continues to
emerge, these proteins are now seen as potential therapeutic targets. Further
study is warranted to assess their utility in treating glaucoma in humans.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2014.0013 
PMCID: PMC4074754
PMID: 24901502  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Clin Drug Investig. 2014 Jul;34(7):521-8. doi: 10.1007/s40261-014-0203-4.

Preservative-free latanoprost eye drops in patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma/ocular hypertension.

Sanford M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Adis, 41 Centorian Drive, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, North Shore, 0754, 
Auckland, New Zealand, demail@springer.com.

Latanoprost is an ester prodrug prostaglandin F2α analogue that is a selective
agonist of endogenous prostanoid FP receptors and that reduces intraocular
pressure (IOP) by increasing the uveoscleral outflow of aqueous humour.
Preservative-free (PF) latanoprost [Monoprost(®)] is a new formulation of
latanoprost that is approved for use in the EU in patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG)/ocular hypertension. This article reviews the clinical
pharmacology of this new formulation, focussing on its efficacy and tolerability 
in this indication. PF latanoprost was efficacious in reducing IOP in a
randomized, investigator-masked, multinational trial in patients with POAG/ocular
hypertension (n = 404). At days 15, 42 and 84 of follow-up, PF latanoprost was
noninferior to benzalkonium chloride-preserved (BAK) latanoprost in terms of
reductions in IOP. In this trial, at days 42 and 84 the proportions of patients
with conjunctival hyperaemia were significantly lower with PF latanoprost than
with BAK latanoprost. Patient subjective ratings of ocular symptoms were also
significantly lower with PF latanoprost than with BAK latanoprost. In the absence
of head-to-head comparisons with other anti-glaucoma drugs, an adjusted, indirect
comparison meta-analysis was performed using data from 21 randomized clinical
trials in patients with POAG/ocular hypertension. Based on this analysis, PF
latanoprost had similar efficacy to different formulations of three comparator
prostaglandin analogues in reducing the patient's IOP and was associated with a
significantly lower risk of developing hyperaemia/ocular redness than these
comparators. PF latanoprost offers a useful alternative to the available
preserved prostaglandin analogues for the treatment of POAG/ocular hypertension.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-014-0203-4 
PMID: 24895141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2014 May;62(5):529-37. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.133481.

New directions in the treatment of normal tension glaucoma.

Song BJ, Caprioli J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jules Stein Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, University of
California, Los Angeles, USA.

Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy that causes characteristic changes of 
the optic nerve and visual field in relation to intraocular pressure (IOP). It is
now known that glaucoma can occur at statistically normal IOPs and prevalence
studies have shown that normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is more common than
previously thought. While IOP is believed to be the predominant risk factor in
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), IOP-independent risk factors, such as
vascular dysregulation, are believed to play an important part in the
pathogenesis of NTG. Though certain distinguishing phenotypic features of NTG
have been reported, such as an increased frequency of disc hemorrhages, acquired 
pits of the optic nerve and characteristic patterns of disc cupping and visual
field loss, there is much overlap of the clinical findings in NTG with POAG,
suggesting that NTG is likely part of a continuum of open angle glaucomas.
However, IOP modification is still the mainstay of treatment in NTG. As in
traditional POAG, reduction of IOP can be achieved with the use of medications,
laser trabeculoplasty or surgery. Studies now show that the choice of medication 
may also be important in determining the outcomes of these patients. Though it is
likely that future treatment of NTG will involve modification of both IOP and
IOP-independent risk factors, current efforts to develop IOP-independent
neuroprotective treatments have not yet proven to be effective in humans.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.133481 
PMCID: PMC4065500
PMID: 24881596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Am J Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep;158(3):615-27.e9. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.05.029. Epub 
2014 May 28.

The association of blood pressure and primary open-angle glaucoma: a
meta-analysis.

Zhao D(1), Cho J(2), Kim MH(3), Guallar E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Welch Center for Prevention, Epidemiology, and 
Clinical Research, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health,
Baltimore, Maryland. (2)Department of Epidemiology and Welch Center for
Prevention, Epidemiology, and Clinical Research, Johns Hopkins University
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland; Department of Health
Sciences and Technology, SAIHST, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, South Korea;
Biostatistics and Clinical Epidemiology Center, Research Institute for Future
Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine,
Seoul, South Korea. (3)Saevit Eye Hospital, Goyang, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea;
Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, Seoul National
University, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: philip.mhkim@gmail.com.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec;158(6):1363.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec;158(6):1363.

PURPOSE: To conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of the association
between blood pressure levels and hypertension with primary open-angle glaucoma
and intraocular pressure endpoints.
DESIGN: Systematic review with quantitative meta-analysis.
METHODS: Studies were identified by searching the PubMed and EMBASE databases.
Inverse-variance weighted random-effects models were used to summarize relative
risks. Subgroup analyses and meta-regression were used to explore potential
sources of heterogeneity across studies.
RESULTS: Sixty observational studies were included. The pooled relative risk for 
primary open-angle glaucoma comparing patients with hypertension to those without
hypertension was 1.16 (95% CI = 1.05-1.28), with modest heterogeneity across
studies (I(2) 34.5%). Virtually all studies reported a positive association
between blood pressure and intraocular pressure (IOP). The pooled average
increase in IOP associated with a 10 mm Hg increase in systolic blood pressure
was 0.26 mm Hg (95% CI 0.23-0.28, I(2) 30.7%), and the average increase
associated with a 5 mm Hg increase in diastolic blood pressure was 0.17 mm Hg
(95% CI 0.11-0.23, I(2) 90.5%).
CONCLUSIONS: In this meta-analysis, hypertension was associated with increased
intraocular pressure. The association between hypertension and primary open-angle
glaucoma was stronger in cross-sectional compared with case-control and
longitudinal studies. Our findings support a role of increased blood pressure in 
elevated intraocular pressure and possibly in the development of glaucoma.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2014.05.029 
PMID: 24879946  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Surv Ophthalmol. 2014 Jul-Aug;59(4):434-47. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2013.09.003. Epub 2014 May 13.

Population-based glaucoma prevalence studies in Asians.

Cho HK(1), Kee C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul,
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: ckee@skku.edu.

Glaucoma-related population-based studies from Japan, Mongolia, India, Singapore,
Thailand, China, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, and South Korea show a higher
glaucoma prevalence in Asian patients, including a higher incidence of primary
angle-closure glaucoma, than in white patients, although primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) is still the most commonly reported. Among POAG, normal tension
glaucoma predominates over high tension glaucoma, a distinctive finding. Risk
factors for glaucoma in population-based studies in both Asian and white patients
are similar, except that myopia is a greater risk factor in Asian patients.
Diagnostic criteria differ among studies, some using the International Society of
Geographic and Epidemiologic Ophthalmology (ISGEO) classification and others not.
The devices used to observe the optic disk and test the visual field are also not
uniform across studies. Moreover, the ages of patients, and whether rural or
urban, were different. To allow reliable comparison of the results of
epidemiologic studies, efforts to standardize the diagnostic criteria, devices,
and the age range of the study population are required.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2013.09.003 
PMID: 24837853  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


152. JAMA. 2014 May 14;311(18):1901-11. doi: 10.1001/jama.2014.3192.

The pathophysiology and treatment of glaucoma: a review.

Weinreb RN(1), Aung T(2), Medeiros FA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hamilton Glaucoma Center, Shiley Eye Center and Department of Ophthalmology,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla. (2)Singapore National Eye Center, 
Singapore, Singapore3Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of
Singapore, Singapore.

IMPORTANCE: Glaucoma is a worldwide leading cause of irreversible vision loss.
Because it may be asymptomatic until a relatively late stage, diagnosis is
frequently delayed. A general understanding of the disease pathophysiology,
diagnosis, and treatment may assist primary care physicians in referring
high-risk patients for comprehensive ophthalmologic examination and in more
actively participating in the care of patients affected by this condition.
OBJECTIVE: To describe current evidence regarding the pathophysiology and
treatment of open-angle glaucoma and angle-closure glaucoma.
EVIDENCE REVIEW: A literature search was conducted using MEDLINE, the Cochrane
Library, and manuscript references for studies published in English between
January 2000 and September 2013 on the topics open-angle glaucoma and
angle-closure glaucoma. From the 4334 abstracts screened, 210 articles were
selected that contained information on pathophysiology and treatment with
relevance to primary care physicians.
FINDINGS: The glaucomas are a group of progressive optic neuropathies
characterized by degeneration of retinal ganglion cells and resulting changes in 
the optic nerve head. Loss of ganglion cells is related to the level of
intraocular pressure, but other factors may also play a role. Reduction of
intraocular pressure is the only proven method to treat the disease. Although
treatment is usually initiated with ocular hypotensive drops, laser
trabeculoplasty and surgery may also be used to slow disease progression.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Primary care physicians can play an important role in 
the diagnosis of glaucoma by referring patients with positive family history or
with suspicious optic nerve head findings for complete ophthalmologic
examination. They can improve treatment outcomes by reinforcing the importance of
medication adherence and persistence and by recognizing adverse reactions from
glaucoma medications and surgeries.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2014.3192 
PMCID: PMC4523637
PMID: 24825645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan-Feb;43(1):84-5. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12357. Epub 2014
May 30.

Upper limits of intraocular pressure in glaucoma clinical trials.

DeMill DL(1), Wirostko BM, Nelson LA, Stewart WC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12357 
PMID: 24801136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2014 May-Aug;8(2):67-74. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1164. Epub 2014 Jun 12.

Intraocular Pressure Control after Trabeculectomy, Phacotrabeculectomy and
Phacoemulsification in a Hispanic Population.

L Jung J(1), Isida-Llerandi CG(2), Lazcano-Gomez G(3), SooHoo JR(4), Kahook
MY(5).

Author information: 
(1)Instructor, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Colorado School of
Medicine, Aurora, Colorado, USA. (2)Glaucoma Fellowship, Asociacion para evitar
la ceguera en Mexico IAP, Vicente Garcia Torres 46, San Lucas Coyoacan, DF,
Maxico. (3)Glaucoma Associate Professor, Asociacion para evitarla ceguera en
Mexico IAP, Vicente Garcia Torres 46, San Lucas Coyoacan, DF, Maxico.
(4)Assistant Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Colorado
School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado, USA. (5)Professor, Department of
Ophthalmology, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare the efficacy of different surgical strategies for intraocular
pressure (IOP) control in Hispanic glaucoma patients with and without visually
significant cataracts.
DESIGN: Comparative retrospective consecutive case series.
METHODS: The charts of 153 consecutive patients with primary open angle glaucoma 
who underwent either trabeculectomy alone (n = 51), phacotrabeculectomy (n = 51),
or phacoemulsification alone (n = 51) were reviewed to compare IOP control, the
number of glaucoma medications required postoperatively, and the inci dence of
surgical complications.
RESULTS: Preoperative IOP was 17.5 ± 5.2 mm Hg in the trabe-culectomy group, 15.4
± 4.5 mm Hg in the phacotrabeculectomy group and 13.9 ± 2.9 mm Hg in the
phacoemulsification group (p < 0.001 for all comparisons). Mean IOP reduction
from baseline was 4.2 ± 6.9 (24.6%) for the trabeculectomy group, 2.9 ± 5.0
(20.8%) for the phacotrabeculectomy group, and 0.9 ± 3.4 (6.5%) for the
phacoemulsification group (p = 0.009). The number of IOP-lowering medications
required postoperatively decreased significantly in all three groups (p = 0.001).
The rate of early and late postoperative complications was similar between the
trabeculectomy and phacotrabeculectomy groups and less for the
phacoemulsification group.
CONCLUSION: Trabeculectomy and phacotrabeculectomy are both viable surgical
options for managing open angle glau coma. Both resulted in similar rates of
success, IOP reduction, decrease in use of IOP-lowering medications and post
operative complication rates. Phacoemulsification alone had a lower success rate 
and greater need for postoperative IOP-lowering medications compared to
trabeculectomy alone or phacotrabeculectomy. Phacoemulsification alone may be a
reasonable option for patients with visually significant cataract and lower
baseline IOP. How to cite this article: Jung JL, Isida-Llerandi CG, Lazcano-Gomez
G, SooHoo JR, Kahook MY. Intraocular Pressure Control after Trabeculectomy,
Phacotrabeculectomy and Phaco-emulsification in a Hispanic Population. J Curr
Glaucoma Pract 2014;8(2):67-74.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1164 
PMCID: PMC4741170
PMID: 26997812  [PubMed]


155. Matrix Biol. 2014 Jul;37:174-82. doi: 10.1016/j.matbio.2014.03.007. Epub 2014 Apr
12.

The role of matricellular proteins in glaucoma.

Wallace DM(1), Murphy-Ullrich JE(2), Downs JC(3), O'Brien CJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)UCD School of Medicine and Medical Science, University College Dublin,
Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland; Dept. of Ophthalmology, Mater Misericordiae
University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. Electronic address:
deborahmwallace1@gmail.com. (2)Department of Pathology, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Center for
Ocular Biomechanics and Biotransport, University of Alabama at Birmingham,
Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. (4)UCD School of Medicine and Medical Science,
University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland; Dept. of Ophthalmology,
Mater Misericordiae University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

Glaucoma is an optic neuropathy affecting approximately 60million people
worldwide and is the second most common cause of irreversible blindness. Elevated
intraocular pressure (IOP) is the main risk factor for developing glaucoma and is
caused by impaired aqueous humor drainage through the trabecular meshwork (TM)
and Schlemm's canal (SC). In primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), this elevation
in IOP in turn leads to deformation at the optic nerve head (ONH) specifically at
the lamina cribrosa (LC) region where there is also a deposition of extracellular
matrix (ECM) molecules such as collagen and fibronectin. Matricellular proteins
are non-structural secreted glycoproteins that help cells communicate with their 
surrounding ECM. This family of proteins includes connective tissue growth factor
(CTGF), also known as CCN2, thrombospondins (TSPs), secreted protein acidic and
rich in cysteine (SPARC), periostin, osteonectin, and Tenascin-C and -X and other
ECM proteins. All members appear to play a role in fibrosis and increased ECM
deposition. Most are widely expressed in tissues particularly in the TM and ONH
and deficiency of TSP1 and SPARC have been shown to lower IOP in mouse models of 
glaucoma through enhanced outflow facility. The role of these proteins in
glaucoma is emerging as some have an association with the pathophysiology of the 
TM and LC regions and might therefore be potential targets for therapeutic
intervention in glaucoma.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.matbio.2014.03.007 
PMID: 24727033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Br J Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec;98(12):1605-11. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2013-304133. 
Epub 2014 Apr 10.

Teleglaucoma: ready to go?

Strouthidis NG(1), Chandrasekharan G(2), Diamond JP(3), Murdoch IE(2).

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation
Trust and UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK Singapore Eye Research
Institute, Singapore, Singapore. (2)Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK.
(3)Bristol Eye Hospital, Bristol, UK.

Telemedicine technologies and services allow today's ophthalmic clinicians to
remotely diagnose, manage and monitor several ophthalmic conditions from a
distance. But is this the case for glaucomas? There has been a proliferation of
telemedicine friendly devices in recent years that improves the capabilities of
the clinician in managing glaucomas. The existing instruments still need to align
themselves with accepted industry standards. There are successful programmes
running in several areas of the world. The safety and efficacy of these
programmes needs further exploration. The inability of a single device or test to
diagnose glaucomas satisfactorily has also hampered progress in remotely
diagnosing these conditions. There is, however, significant potential for
telemedicine-friendly devices to remotely monitor the progress of glaucoma and,
thereby, reduce some of the workload on an overstretched health service.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2013-304133 
PMCID: PMC4251299
PMID: 24723617  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


157. ISRN Ophthalmol. 2013 Jul 24;2013:632302. doi: 10.1155/2013/632302. eCollection
2013.

The role of lumican in ocular disease.

Amjadi S(1), Mai K(1), McCluskey P(2), Wakefield D(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medical Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052,
Australia. (2)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2001,
Australia.

Lumican is keratan sulfate proteoglycan of the small leucine rich proteoglycan
family. Through studies in animal models lumican has been found to be critical in
maintaining corneal clarity. It maintains ordered collagen fibrils which are
vital in keeping the cornea transparent. It may also be important in primary open
angle glaucoma influencing aqueous outflow. Lumican deficiency in mice results in
increased axial length with fibromodulin deficiency and thinner sclerae. There is
evidence suggesting that this characteristic may be pertinent in humans and
lumican gene polymorphisms could be related to high myopia. Lumican plays a
fundamental role in inflammation and wound healing. It localises macrophages to
the site of corneal injury and recruits neutrophils in lipopolysaccharide-induced
keratitis in mice. It has also been shown to bind lipopolysaccharide which may be
critical in inflammatory diseases such as uveitis. Lumican is also important in
wound healing revealing decreased synthesis in scar tissue and mediating Fas-Fas 
ligand interactions. It is present in human placenta and amniotic membrane
suggesting that it may ensure viable amniotic membrane grafts. Lumican may also
be involved in the formation of posterior capsular opacification following
cataract surgery. Research into the pivotal role of lumican in the pathogenesis
of ocular disease has resulted in greater understanding of the key role which
proteoglycans play in human disease.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/632302 
PMCID: PMC3914189
PMID: 24558602  [PubMed]


158. ISRN Ophthalmol. 2013 Jul 16;2013:261386. doi: 10.1155/2013/261386. eCollection
2013.

New therapeutic targets for intraocular pressure lowering.

Rocha-Sousa A(1), Rodrigues-Araújo J(2), Gouveia P(2), Barbosa-Breda J(2),
Azevedo-Pinto S(3), Pereira-Silva P(3), Leite-Moreira A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sense Organs, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, 4200-319
Porto, Portugal ; Department of Ophthalmology, São João Hospital, 4200-319 Porto,
Portugal. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, São João Hospital, 4200-319 Porto,
Portugal. (3)Department of Physiology and Cardiothoracic Surgery, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Porto, 4200-319 Porto, Portugal.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause of irreversible and
preventable blindness and ocular hypertension is the strongest known risk factor.
With current classes of drugs, management of the disease focuses on lowering
intraocular pressure (IOP). Despite of their use to modify the course of the
disease, none of the current medications for POAG is able to reduce the IOP by
more than 25%-30%. Also, some glaucoma patients show disease progression despite 
of the therapeutics. This paper examines the new described physiological targets 
for reducing the IOP. The main cause of elevated IOP in POAG is thought to be an 
increased outflow resistance via the pressure-dependent trabecular outflow
system, so there is a crescent interest in increasing trabecular meshwork outflow
by extracellular matrix remodeling and/or by modulation of contractility/TM
cytoskeleton disruption. Modulation of new agents that act mainly on trabecular
meshwork outflow may be the future hypotensive treatment for glaucoma patients.
There are also other agents in which modulation may decrease aqueous humour
production or increase uveoscleral outflow by different mechanisms from those
drugs available for glaucoma treatment. Recently, a role for the ghrelin-GHSR
system in the pathophysiology modulation of the anterior segment, particularly
regarding glaucoma, has been proposed.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/261386 
PMCID: PMC3914177
PMID: 24558600  [PubMed]


159. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2014 Feb;231(2):136-43. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1360331. Epub
2014 Feb 15.

[Relevance of arterial hypertension in primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Erb C(1), Predel HG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik am Wittenbergplatz, Berlin, Deutschland. (2)Institut für
Kreislaufforschung und Sportmedizin, Deutsche Sporthochschule, Köln, Deutschland.

Primary open-angle glaucoma is a multifactorial disease with a lot of different
risk factors. Beside the fact that intraocular pressure (IOP) is the most
important risk factor, the reduction of IOP alone is in most cases not sufficient
to stop the progression of glaucoma. Therefore, other risk factors play also an
important role. One of them is arterial hypertension, the most common systemic
disease in glaucoma patients. Arterial hypertension increases IOP slightly, but
has an important negative effect on ocular perfusion. Especially the endothelial 
dysfunction with a disturbed retinal autoregulation plays an important role.
Therefore, ischaemic and reperfusion effects alter the optic nerve head and have 
negative input to the glaucomatous optic neuropathy. In future glaucoma patients 
should be monitored by ophthalmologists as well as by general
physicians/cardiologists to optimise their treatment and to stabilise their
glaucoma as well as possible.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1360331 
PMID: 24532401  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2014 Feb;231(2):130-5. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1360316. Epub 
2014 Feb 15.

[Neurological disorders and glaucoma - an overview].

[Article in German]

Göbel K(1), Erb C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Augenheilkunde, Schlosspark-Klinik, Berlin. (2)Augenklinik am
Wittenbergplatz, Berlin.

Due to the anatomic location of the N. opticus to the brain and its embryological
development as a "bulging part of the brain", a close connection between the
opticoneuropathy and certain neurological diseases exists. Glaucoma is a chronic 
neurodegenerative disorder and many cellular and molecular mechanisms of the
chronic neurodegenerative diseases are common in the brain. For example, elevated
levels of multiple biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease were found in the aqueous
humor of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma. Also a decreased
cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP) has been demonstrated in patients with
glaucoma and Alzheimer's disease. The resulting translaminar pressure difference 
is seen as one of the pathogenic mechanisms of the formation of the optic
neuropathy in both diseases. Other hypotheses, such as the influence of oxidative
stress, excitotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, genetic factors and vascular
factors play additional roles in the pathogenesis of the different diseases.
Experimental studies have shown that dopaminergic amacrine cells are present in
the retina. The dopamine in the retina is necessary for the light adaptation and 
the signal processing in the rods and cones. Parkinson's disease is characterised
by a loss of dopaminergic neurons in the basal ganglia-substantia nigra pars
compacta of the midbrain. These decreased levels of dopamine also have an effect 
on the eye and the afferent signal processing. So there are reductions in visual 
acuity, disturbances in colour vision and contrast sensitivity and reduction of
the retinal nerve fiber layer in patients affected with Parkinson's disease. With
the examples of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and the chronic
inflammatory disease multiple sclerosis, we demonstrate the association between
the neurological diseases and the opticoneuropathy in primary open-angle
glaucoma.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1360316 
PMID: 24532400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2014 Feb;231(2):116-20. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1360143. Epub
2014 Feb 15.

[The relevance of diabetes for patients with glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Klemm M(1), Gesser C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinikum Hamburg Eppendorf, Klinik und Poliklinik für
Augenheilkunde, Hamburg.

Although there are some hints for a correlation between diabetes and primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG), it remains unclear in which way diabetes influences eye
pressure (IOP) and glaucoma. Despite this, the main reason for neovascular
glaucoma in diabetes is proven to be retinal ischaemia due to diabetic vessel
damage. Primary open angle glaucoma is more frequent than neovascular glaucoma,
but neovascular glaucoma is very aggressive and difficult to treat. The mainstay 
of the treatment is panretinal photo- or cryocoagulation. The next treatment
options are cryodestructive procedures followed by filtering surgeries. In most
cases a combination of treatments is necessary. In end-stage neovascular glaucoma
sometimes enucleation is the only possible therapy when the IOP cannot be
controlled or phthisis bulbi occurs.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1360143 
PMID: 24532397  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Eye (Lond). 2014 Mar;28(3):259-68. doi: 10.1038/eye.2014.1. Epub 2014 Feb 14.

Influence of diabetes and diabetes type on anatomic and visual outcomes following
central rein vein occlusion.

Santiago JG(1), Walia S(1), Sun JK(2), Cavallerano JD(2), Haddad ZA(1), Aiello
LP(2), Silva PS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Beetham Eye Institute, Joslin Diabetes Center, Boston, MA, USA. (2)1] Beetham 
Eye Institute, Joslin Diabetes Center, Boston, MA, USA [2] Department of
Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the influence of diabetes and diabetes type on ocular
outcomes following central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO).
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of all patients evaluated over a 4-year
period in a tertiary diabetes eye care center. Ophthalmic findings were recorded 
including visual acuity and the presence of retinal neovascularization at
presentation, after 3-6 months, and at last follow-up.
RESULTS: The records of 19,648 patients (13,571 diabetic; 6077 nondiabetic) were 
reviewed. The prevalence of CRVO in diabetic patients (N=72) and nondiabetic
patients (N=27) were 0.5 and 0.4%, respectively. Disc neovascularization (21.3 vs
0.0%, P=0.05) and panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) (48.7 vs 21.4%, P=0.01) were 
more common in diabetic patients compared with nondiabetic patients. Compared
with type 2 diabetic patients, retinal neovascularization (28.6 vs 3.7%, P=0.004)
and subsequent PRP (78.6 vs 41.9%, P=0.01) were more likely in type 1 patients.
Optic nerve head collateral vessels (CVs) were observed less than half as often
(21.4 vs 56.5%, P=0.04) in patients with type 1 diabetes. Presence of optic nerve
head CVs at baseline was associated with less likelihood of PRP (14.3 vs 46.1%,
P=0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort, the rates of CRVO in diabetic and nondiabetic
patients were similar to previously published population-based studies. Following
CRVO, diabetic patients had higher rates of disc neovascularization and were more
likely to require subsequent PRP than nondiabetic patients. As compared with CRVO
patients with type 2 diabetes, patients with type 1 diabetes and CRVO had worse
anatomic outcomes with substantially increased risks of retinal
neovascularization and PRP; however, final visual acuity outcomes were similar.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2014.1 
PMCID: PMC3965828
PMID: 24525865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


163. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Mar-Apr;30(2-3):170-80. doi: 10.1089/jop.2013.0184.
Epub 2014 Feb 12.

The microfibril hypothesis of glaucoma: implications for treatment of elevated
intraocular pressure.

Kuchtey J(1), Kuchtey RW.

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt Eye Institute, Vanderbilt University , Nashville, Tennessee.

Microfibrils are macromolecular aggregates located in the extracellular matrix of
both elastic and nonelastic tissues that have essential functions in formation of
elastic fibers and control of signaling through the transforming growth factor
beta (TGFβ) family of cytokines. Elevation of systemic TGFβ and chronic
activation of TGFβ signal transduction are associated with diseases caused by
mutations in microfibril-associated genes, including FBN1. A role for
microfibrils in glaucoma is suggested by identification of risk alleles in LOXL1 
for exfoliation glaucoma and mutations in LTBP2 for primary congenital glaucoma, 
both of which are microfibril-associated genes. Recent identification of a
mutation in another microfibril-associated gene, ADAMTS10, in a dog model of
primary open-angle glaucoma led us to form the microfibril hypothesis of
glaucoma, which in general states that defective microfibrils may be an
underlying cause of glaucoma. Microfibril defects could contribute to glaucoma
through alterations in biomechanical properties of tissue and/or through effects 
on signaling through TGFβ, which is well established to be elevated in the
aqueous humor of glaucoma patients. Recent work has shown that diseases caused by
microfibril defects are associated with increased concentrations of TGFβ protein 
and chronic activation of TGFβ-mediated signal transduction. In analogy with
other microfibril-related diseases, defective microfibrils could provide a
mechanism for the elevation of TGFβ2 in glaucomatous aqueous humor. If glaucoma
shares mechanisms with other diseases caused by defective microfibrils, such as
Marfan syndrome, therapeutic interventions to inhibit chronic activation of TGFβ 
signaling used in those diseases may be applied to glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2013.0184 
PMCID: PMC3991966
PMID: 24521159  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Mar-Apr;30(2-3):154-62. doi: 10.1089/jop.2013.0220.
Epub 2014 Feb 11.

The role of TGF-β2 and bone morphogenetic proteins in the trabecular meshwork and
glaucoma.

Wordinger RJ(1), Sharma T, Clark AF.

Author information: 
(1)1 North Texas Eye Research Institute, University of North Texas Health Science
Center , Fort Worth, Texas.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is the second leading cause of blindness
worldwide. Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) is a primary risk factor
associated with POAG. Increased aqueous humor (AH) outflow resistance through the
trabecular meshwork (TM) results in elevated IOP in POAG patients. Resistance to 
AH outflow is associated with increased accumulation of extracellular matrix
(ECM) proteins in the TM. In addition, levels of transforming growth factor-beta2
(TGF-β2) are elevated in the AH and TM tissue of POAG patients. Elevated levels
of TGF-β2 in other tissues have been associated with fibrosis and increased
tissue stiffness. However, locally produced effectors that maintain homeostatic
relationships must also be present. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) serve this
purpose in the TM as they inhibit TGF-β2-induced ECM changes in TM cells. This
review article first describes the TGF-β superfamily of growth factors including 
BMPs and their canonical and noncanonical signaling pathways. The article then
addresses the role of TGF-β2 in the pathophysiology of POAG as related to the ECM
and ECM crosslinking enzymes. This is followed by a discussion of potential
homeostatic control mechanisms of TGF-β2 signaling in the TM including the
inhibitory role of BMP-4 and BMP-7. We then describe the relationship of TGF-β2
and BMPs in TM fibrosis including the role of antagonists. Lastly, in future
directions, we identify potential future studies that explore new and unique
cellular interactions within the TM for potential therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2013.0220 
PMCID: PMC3991963
PMID: 24517218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


165. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Mar-Apr;30(2-3):121-7. doi: 10.1089/jop.2013.0239.
Epub 2014 Feb 7.

Role of the alternatively spliced glucocorticoid receptor isoform GRβ in steroid 
responsiveness and glaucoma.

Jain A(1), Wordinger RJ, Yorio T, Clark AF.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Cell Biology and Immunology, University of North Texas Health 
Science Center , Fort Worth, Texas.

Glucocorticoid (GC)-induced ocular hypertension (OHT) is a serious side effect of
GC therapy in susceptible individuals. This OHT is due to increased aqueous humor
(AH) outflow resistance in the trabecular meshwork (TM) caused by GC-mediated
changes in TM structure and function. GCs may also play a role in the development
of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Elevated cortisol levels in the AH or
enhanced GC sensitivity may be one of the reasons for elevated intraocular
pressure in POAG patients. The GC OHT responder population is at greater risk of 
developing POAG compared with non-responders. We recently have gained insight
into the molecular mechanisms responsible for this differential GC
responsiveness, which is attributed to differences in GC receptor isoform
expression in the TM. This article summarizes current knowledge on alternative GC
receptor splicing to generate GC receptor alpha (GRα) and GRβ and their roles in 
the regulation of GC responsiveness in normal and glaucoma TM.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2013.0239 
PMCID: PMC3991988
PMID: 24506296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Clin J Sport Med. 2014 Sep;24(5):364-72. doi: 10.1097/JSM.0000000000000073.

Reductions in intraocular pressure after acute aerobic exercise: a meta-analysis.

Roddy G(1), Curnier D, Ellemberg D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Kinesiology, Laboratory of the Neuropsychology of Sport and
Development, University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Aerobic exercise is known to reduce elevated intraocular pressure
(IOP), a primary risk factor for a disease of the eye known as primary open-angle
glaucoma. Given the disparate nature of experimental protocols across the
literature, an analysis of studies on the effect of acute aerobic exercise on IOP
is necessary to verify the influence of participant characteristics, exercise
intensity, and duration.
DATA SOURCES: The electronic databases PubMed, Web of Science, and Embase were
searched, producing 35 empirical studies for review. Ten studies producing 14
independent groups were chosen as per the criteria of the analysis.
MAIN RESULTS: Random effects model was used to produce subgroup analyses, and
meta-regressions were used to verify the impact of group allocation, intensity,
and duration on the interstudy variability of the effect size (ES). The outcome
variable of postexercise change in IOP produced a significant effect of exercise,
almost 2-fold greater for sedentary populations than for normally active
populations (ES = -4.198; confidence interval, -5.151 to -3.245); ES = -2.340;
confidence interval, -3.305 to 1.375, respectively). The significant effect of
exercise on IOP is potentially mediated by group allocation. Intensity and
duration do not contribute to the overall ES nor do they explain the difference
between sedentary and normally active populations.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a robust effect of exercise on IOP for sedentary
participants. However, the heterogeneity across study parameters, such as
exercise protocol, IOP measurement, and participant selection, prohibited the
inclusion of studies in this analysis that may have influenced the results. The
current analysis makes clear the need for standardization of protocol across this
field of research.

DOI: 10.1097/JSM.0000000000000073 
PMID: 24451699  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Ophthalmology. 2014 Apr;121(4):855-61. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.11.001. Epub
2014 Jan 10.

Gonioscopy-assisted transluminal trabeculotomy, ab interno trabeculotomy:
technique report and preliminary results.

Grover DS(1), Godfrey DG(2), Smith O(2), Feuer WJ(3), Montes de Oca I(4), Fellman
RL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Associates of Texas, Dallas, Texas. Electronic address:
dgrover@glaucomaassociates.com. (2)Glaucoma Associates of Texas, Dallas, Texas.
(3)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami, Miami, Florida. (4)Unidad
Oftalmologica Montego c.a, Barquisimeto, Venezuela.

PURPOSE: To introduce a minimally invasive, ab interno approach to a
circumferential 360-degree trabeculotomy and to report the preliminary results.
DESIGN: Retrospective, noncomparative cases series.
PARTICIPANTS: Eighty-five eyes of 85 consecutive patients who sought treatment at
Glaucoma Associates of Texas with uncontrolled open-angle glaucoma and underwent 
gonioscopy-assisted transluminal trabeculotomy (GATT) for whom there was at least
6 months of follow-up data.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of patients who underwent GATT by 4 of the
authors (D.S.G., D.G.G., O.S., R.L.F.) between October 2011 and October 2012. The
surgery was performed in adults with various open-angle glaucomas.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Intraocular pressure (IOP), glaucoma medications, visual
acuity, and intraoperative as well as postoperative complications.
RESULTS: Eighty-five patients with an age range of 24 to 88 years underwent GATT 
with at least 6 months of follow-up. In 57 patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma, the IOP decreased by 7.7 mmHg (standard deviation [SD], 6.2 mm Hg;
30.0% [SD, 22.7%]) with an average decrease in glaucoma medications of 0.9 (SD,
1.3) at 6 months. In this group, the IOP decreased by 11.1 mmHg (SD, 6.1 mmHg;
39.8% [SD, 16.0%]) with 1.1 fewer glaucoma medications at 12 months. In the
secondary glaucoma group of 28 patients, IOP decreased by 17.2 mmHg (SD, 10.8
mmHg; 52.7% [SD, 15.8%]) with an average of 2.2 fewer glaucoma medications at 6
months. In this group, the IOP decreased by 19.9 mmHg (SD, 10.2 mmHg; 56.8% [SD, 
17.4%]) with an average of 1.9 fewer medications (SD, 2.1) at 12 months.
Treatment was considered to have failed in 9% (8/85) of patients because of the
need for further glaucoma surgery. The cumulative proportion of failure at 1 year
ranged from 0.1 to 0.32, depending on the group. Lens status or concurrent
cataract surgery did not have a statistically significant effect on IOP in eyes
that underwent GATT at either 6 or 12 months (P > 0.35). The most common
complication was transient hyphema, seen in 30% of patients at the 1-week visit.
CONCLUSIONS: The preliminary results and safety profile for GATT, a minimally
invasive circumferential trabeculotomy, are promising and at least equivalent to 
previously published results for ab externo trabeculotomy.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.11.001 
PMID: 24412282  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


168. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2014 Jan-Apr;8(1):10-4. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1154. Epub 2014 Jan 16.

Macular Thickness Variability in Primary Open Angle Glaucoma Patients using
Optical Coherence Tomography.

Sharma A(1), Agarwal P(1), Sathyan P(2), Saini VK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Assistant Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, People's College of Medical 
Sciences and Research Centre, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India. (2)Professor and
Head, Department of Ophthalmology, Sathyan Eye Care Hospital and Coimbatore
Glaucoma Foundation, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India. (3)Professor and Head,
Department of Ophthalmology, People's College of Medical Sciences and Research
Centre, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India.

AIM: To compare the difference of retinal macular thickness and macular volume
using optical coherence tomography (OCT) in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG)
patients with the normal subjects.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This observational case control study included primary
open angle glaucoma (POAG) patients (n = 124 eyes) and healthy subjects in the
control group (n = 124 eyes). All subjects underwent detailed history, general
and systemic exami -nation. Complete ocular examination included best corrected
visual acuity (BCVA), slit lamp examination, intraocular pressure (IOP), central 
corneal thickness, gonioscopy, dilated fundus biomicroscopy. Field analysis was
done by white on white Humphrey Field Analyzer (Carl Zeiss). Optical coherence
tomography imaging of macular area was performed using Stratus OCT (OCT 3,
Version 4, Carl Zeiss Inc, Dublin, California, USA). In both these groups,
parameters analyzed were macular thickness, inner macular thicknesses (IMT),
outer macular thicknesses (OMT), central macular thick ness (CMT) and total
macular volume (TMV).
RESULTS: The POAG group had significantly decreased values of TMV, OMT and IMT,
compared to control group, while there was no difference in CMT, presumably due
to absence of ganglion cells in the central part. Thus, macular thickness and
volume parameters may be used for making the diagnosis of glaucoma especially in 
patients with abnormalities of disc.
CONCLUSION: Macular thickness parameters correlated well with the diagnosis of
glaucoma. How to cite this article: Sharma A, Agarwal P, Sathyan P, Saini VK.
Macular Thickness Variability in Primary Open Angle Glaucoma Patients using
Optical Coherence Tomography. J Current Glau Prac 2014;8(1):10-14.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1154 
PMCID: PMC4741156
PMID: 26997801  [PubMed]


169. Clujul Med. 2014;87(3):143-6. doi: 10.15386/cjmed-295. Epub 2014 Aug 5.

The Role of Oxidative Stress and Vascular Insufficiency in Primary Open Angle
Glaucoma.

Ster AM(1), Popp RA(2), Petrisor FM(2), Stan C(1), Pop VI(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Ophthalmology, Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and Pharmacy,
Cluj-Napoca, Romania. (2)Dept. of Medical Genetics, Iuliu Hatieganu University of
Medicine and Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG) is a chronic, irreversible optic neuropathy
leading to the progressive death of retinal ganglion cells, clinically observed
as silent visual field loss along with a decrease in colour and contrast
sensitivity. Multiple pathogenic theories have been issued and some of them have 
proven their involvement in disease development: mechanical damage due to
increased intraocular pressure, variable susceptibility of the optic nerve,
mutation in specific nuclear genes, increased glutamate levels, alteration in
nitric oxide (NO) metabolism, changes in the mitochondrial genome, vascular
disturbances, and toxic effects and oxidative damage caused by reactive oxygen
species [1]. The aim of this article is to highlight the pathogenic role of
vascular disturbances and reactive oxygen species in POAG with the further
possibilities for prevention and gene therapy.

DOI: 10.15386/cjmed-295 
PMCID: PMC4508597
PMID: 26528013  [PubMed]


170. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 27;8(11):e82347. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082347.
eCollection 2013.

Role of the APOE ε2/ε3/ε4 polymorphism in the development of primary open-angle
glaucoma: evidence from a comprehensive meta-analysis.

Song Q(1), Chen P, Liu Q.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, P.R. China.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is one of the leading causes of blindness
worldwide. The association between the APOE ε2/ε3/ε4 polymorphism and the risk of
POAG has been widely reported, but the results of previous studies remain
controversial. To comprehensively evaluate the APOE ε2/ε3/ε4 polymorphism on the 
genetic risk for POAG, we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of
previously published studies. The PubMed and Web of Science databases were
systematically searched to identify relevant studies. Data were extracted from
these studies and odds ratios with corresponding 95% confidence intervals were
computed to estimate the strength of the association. Stratified analyses
according to ethnicity and sensitivity analyses were also conducted for further
confirmation. A total of nine studies were eligible for the meta-analysis, and
these studies included data on 1928 POAG cases and 1793 unrelated match controls.
The combined results showed that there were no associations between the APOE
ε2/ε3/ε4 polymorphism and POAG risk in any of the 10 comparison models. The
analysis that was stratified by ethnicity subgroups also failed to reveal a
significant association. The sensitivity analysis confirmed the stability and
reliability of the findings. There was no risk of publication bias. Our
meta-analysis provides strong evidence that the APOE ε2/ε3/ε4 polymorphism is not
associated with POAG susceptibility in any populations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082347 
PMCID: PMC3842323
PMID: 24312416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


171. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Mar-Apr;30(2-3):181-90. doi: 10.1089/jop.2013.0194.
Epub 2013 Nov 27.

Bioactive lysophospholipids: role in regulation of aqueous humor outflow and
intraocular pressure in the context of pathobiology and therapy of glaucoma.

Rao PV(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University School of Medicine , Durham,
North Carolina.

Homeostasis of aqueous humor (AH) outflow and intraocular pressure (IOP) is
essential for normal vision. Impaired AH outflow through the trabecular meshwork 
(TM) and a resultant elevation in IOP are common changes in primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG), which is the most prevalent form of glaucoma. Although elevated 
IOP has been recognized as a definitive risk factor for POAG and lowering
elevated IOP remains a mainstay for glaucoma treatment, little is known about the
molecular mechanisms, especially external cues and intracellular pathways,
involved in the regulation of AH outflow in both normal and glaucomatous eyes. In
addition, despite the recognition that increased resistance to AH outflow via the
conventional pathway consisting of TM and Schlemm's canal is the main cause for
elevated IOP, there are no clinically approved drugs that target the conventional
pathway to lower IOP in glaucoma patients. The aim of this article is to briefly 
review published work on the importance of bioactive lysophospholipids (eg,
lysophosphatidic acid and sphingosine-1-phosphate), their receptors, metabolism, 
signaling, and role in the regulation of AH outflow via the TM and IOP, and to
discuss pharmacological targeting of key proteins in the lysophospholipid
signaling pathways to lower IOP in glaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2013.0194 
PMCID: PMC3991961
PMID: 24283588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Cornea. 2014 Jan;33(1):99-100. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0000000000000022.

Resolution of conjunctival sessile hemangioma with topical timolol.

Lubahn JG(1), Lee RK, Karp CL.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, FL.

PURPOSE: To report a single case of acquired sessile hemangioma of the
conjunctiva which resolved after treatment with topical timolol.
METHODS: Case report and literature review.
RESULTS: A 77-year-old African American woman developed an acquired sessile
hemangioma of the conjunctiva of the right eye. She was followed for primary
open-angle glaucoma, and the lesion was monitored for 12 months without change.
Topical timolol-dorzolamide was then added to her glaucoma medication regimen
twice daily. On follow-up examination 6 months later, the lesion had completely
resolved.
CONCLUSIONS: In this case report, an acquired sessile hemangioma of the
conjunctiva resolved with topical timolol therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0000000000000022 
PMCID: PMC3895456
PMID: 24270678  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2014 Jan;58(1):1-15. doi: 10.1007/s10384-013-0286-0. Epub 2013 
Nov 21.

Genetics of primary open angle glaucoma.

Takamoto M(1), Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo,
Tokyo, Japan.

Glaucoma is a neurodegenerative disease and one of the leading causes of
irreversible blindness, affecting over 60 million people worldwide. At the
present time, glaucoma is clinically defined, but the exact etiology is unknown. 
Genetic studies are one approach to identify the molecules and pathways involved 
in disease pathogenesis. Familial aggregation of primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG) has long been recognized, and the analysis of POAG families with a
Mendelian inheritance form of this disease has been employed to identify multiple
loci linked to them. Some causative genes, such as myocilin, optineurin and WD
repeat domain 36, have been identified. However, most cases of POAG are
considered to be a prevalent, multifactorial disorder. Several association
studies have been conducted for candidate genes, and genome-wide association
studies recently identified new susceptibility loci for POAG, namely, S1 RNA
binding domain 1 region on chromosome 2p21, the caveolin 1 and caveolin 2 regions
on 7q31, transmembrane and coiled-coil domain 1 region on 1q24, cyclin-dependent 
kinase inhibitor 2B antisense RNA on 9p21, the SIX1 and SIX6 regions on 14q24
and, possibly, the regulatory region of 8q22. Further analysis of clinical
manifestations caused by specific genes and functional analysis of these genes
will contribute to the development of new strategies for the diagnosis and
treatment of POAG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-013-0286-0 
PMID: 24258795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2013 Aug;49(8):749-51.

[Recent advances in viscocanalostomy for primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Zong Y(1), Yuan ZL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University,Nanjing 210029, China.

Viscocanalostomy is used as the surgical intervention for open angle glaucoma. It
has advantage of creating gradual filtration through the thin trabeculo-descemet 
membrane to reduce markedly the postoperative complications. Lately, many
surgeons modified VCO, like combined it with phacoemulsification, or use the
implant. Many to lower IOP to a greater degree and enhance success rates. This
article reviewed the history of VCO, specially on the point of the surgical
methods, effect, development, progress and tendency of VCO.


PMID: 24246815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Biometals. 2013 Nov 15. [Epub ahead of print]

Pathogenetic role of magnesium deficiency in ophthalmic diseases.

Agarwal R(1), Iezhitsa L, Agarwal P.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Teknologi MARA, Sungai Buloh Campus, Jalan
Hospital, 47000, Sungai Buloh, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.

Magnesium is one of the most important regulatory cation involved in several
biological processes. It is important for maintaining the structural and
functional integrity of several vital ocular tissues such as cornea, lens and
retina. The magnesium content of lens, especially in its peripheral part, is
higher than that in aqueous and vitreous humor. Magnesium has also been shown to 
play critically important role in retinal functions. Magnesium plays significant 
role as a cofactor for more than 350 enzymes in the body and regulates
neuroexcitability and several ion channels. Membrane associated ATPase functions 
that are crucial in regulating the intracellular ionic environment, are
magnesium-dependent. Moreover, the enzymes involved in ATP production and
hydrolysis are also magnesium-dependent. Magnesium deficiency by interfering with
ATPase functions causes increased intracellular calcium and sodium and decreases 
intracellular potassium concentration. Such ionic imbalances in turn alter the
other cellular enzymatic reactions and form the basis of the association of
magnesium deficiency with ophthalmic diseases such as cataract. In presence of
magnesium deficiency, an imbalance between mediators of vasoconstriction and
vasorelaxation may underlie the vasospasm, which is one of the pathogenic factors
in primary open angle glaucoma. Furthermore, magnesium deficiency is also a
contributing factor in increased oxidative stress and inducible NOS stimulation
that can further contribute in the initiation and progression of ocular
pathologies such as cataract, glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy. In this paper we
review the association of disturbances of magnesium homeostasis with several
ophthalmic diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s10534-013-9684-5 
PMID: 24233809  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


176. Saudi J Ophthalmol. 2013 Apr;27(2):107-11. doi: 10.1016/j.sjopt.2013.02.001. Epub
2013 Feb 11.

The gene therapy revolution in ophthalmology.

Al-Saikhan FI(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Salman Bin Abdulaziz University, Al-Kharj, Saudi Arabia.

The advances in gene therapy hold significant promise for the treatment of
ophthalmic conditions. Several studies using animal models have been published.
Animal models on retinitis pigmentosa, Leber's Congenital Amaurosis (LCA), and
Stargardt disease have involved the use of adeno-associated virus (AAV) to
deliver functional genes into mice and canines. Mice models have been used to
show that a mutation in cGMP phosphodiesterase that results in retinitis
pigmentosa can be corrected using rAAV vectors. Additionally, rAAV vectors have
been successfully used to deliver ribozyme into mice with a subsequent
improvement in autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa. By using dog models,
researchers have made progress in studying X-linked retinitis pigmentosa which
results from a RPGR gene mutation. Mouse and canine models have also been used in
the study of LCA. The widely studied form of LCA is LCA2, resulting from a
mutation in the gene RPE65. Mice and canines that were injected with normal
copies of RPE65 gene showed signs such as improved retinal pigment epithelium
transduction, visual acuity, and functional recovery. Studies on Stargardt
disease have shown that mutations in the ABCA4 gene can be corrected with AAV
vectors, or nanoparticles. Gene therapy for the treatment of red-green color
blindness was successful in squirrel monkeys. Plans are at an advanced stage to
begin clinical trials. Researchers have also proved that CD59 can be used with
AMD. Gene therapy is also able to treat primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) in
animal models, and studies show it is economically viable.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjopt.2013.02.001 
PMCID: PMC3809501
PMID: 24227970  [PubMed]


177. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Mar-Apr;30(2-3):163-9. doi: 10.1089/jop.2013.0174.
Epub 2013 Nov 8.

Benzalkonium chloride and glaucoma.

Rasmussen CA(1), Kaufman PL, Kiland JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, School of Medicine & Public
Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison, Wisconsin.

Glaucoma patients routinely take multiple medications, with multiple daily doses,
for years or even decades. Benzalkonium chloride (BAK) is the most common
preservative in glaucoma medications. BAK has been detected in the trabecular
meshwork (TM), corneal endothelium, lens, and retina after topical drop
installation and may accumulate in those tissues. There is evidence that BAK
causes corneal and conjunctival toxicity, including cell loss, disruption of
tight junctions, apoptosis and preapoptosis, cytoskeleton changes, and
immunoinflammatory reactions. These same effects have been reported in cultured
human TM cells exposed to concentrations of BAK found in common glaucoma drugs
and in the TM of primary open-angle glaucoma donor eyes. It is possible that a
relationship exists between chronic exposure to BAK and glaucoma. The hypothesis 
that BAK causes/worsens glaucoma is being tested experimentally in an animal
model that closely reflects human physiology.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2013.0174 
PMCID: PMC3991986
PMID: 24205938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


178. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2013 Dec;131(12):1573-82. doi: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2013.5059.

Efficacy and safety of trabeculectomy vs nonpenetrating surgical procedures: a
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Rulli E(1), Biagioli E(1), Riva I(2), Gambirasio G(2), De Simone I(1), Floriani
I(1), Quaranta L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Laboratory, IRCCS-Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche "Mario
Negri," Milan, Italy. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Brescia,
Brescia, Italy.

IMPORTANCE: To date, only a few studies have directly compared nonpenetrating
surgery (NPS) and trabeculectomy (TE). Therefore, there is no strong evidence as 
to which surgical technique leads to the best results in terms of ocular
hypotensive effect and safety.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the hypotensive effect and safety of NPS and TE in terms of
intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction and incidence of complications.
DATA SOURCES: The MEDLINE and EMBASE databases were searched for studies
potentially eligible in any language published up to March 31, 2013.
STUDY SELECTION: Systematic review and meta-analysis of comparative studies of 2 
or more surgical techniques (1 of which had to be TE), including patients with
open-angle glaucoma.
DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: The considered interventions were TE, deep
sclerectomy (DS), viscocanalostomy, and canaloplasty.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was the mean between-group
difference in the reduction in diurnal IOP from baseline to the 6- or 12-month
follow-up evaluation. We also considered the incidence of complications,
expressed as relative risk.
RESULTS: Eighteen articles, accounting for 20 comparisons, were selected for data
extraction and analysis. Analysis of the 6-month follow-up data showed that the
pooled estimate of the mean between-group difference was -2.15 mm Hg (95% CI,
-2.85 to -1.44) in favor of TE. There was no difference between the NPS
subgroups. In the subgroup antimetabolite analysis, the addition of mitomycin C
to TE and DS decreased the difference in the reduction in IOP (TE and DS without 
mitomycin C: -2.65 mm Hg [95% CI, -3.90 to -1.39]; TE and DS with mitomycin C:
-0.83 mm Hg [95% CI, -2.40 to 0.74]). In the subgroup analysis by implant
addition, no significant difference induced by DS with or without drainage
devices was detected (test for subgroup differences: χ(2)(1) = 0.24; P = .62).
The absolute risk of hypotony, choroidal effusion, cataract, and flat or shallow 
anterior chamber was higher in the TE group than in the NPS group.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Trabeculectomy seems to be the most effective surgical
procedure for reducing IOP in patients with open-angle glaucoma. However, as
expected, it was associated with a higher incidence of complications when
compared with NPS.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2013.5059 
PMID: 24158640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


179. J Glaucoma. 2014 Jan;23(1):e60-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000008.

Risk factors for adverse consequences of low intraocular pressure after
trabeculectomy.

Saeedi OJ(1), Jefferys JL, Solus JF, Jampel HD, Quigley HA.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Maryland
School of Medicine †Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD
‡Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA and Glaucoma
Center of Excellence, Wilmer Ophthalmological Institute, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.

PURPOSE: To determine the risk factors for low intraocular pressure (IOP) and its
detrimental consequences after trabeculectomy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a retrospective chart review of consecutive
patients aged 12 years and above undergoing trabeculectomy alone by 1 of 2
surgeons between May 2000 and October 2008 at the Wilmer Institute.
RESULTS: Among 753 eyes of 596 patients, 112 eyes (14.9%) of 103 patients had an 
IOP of ≤5 mm Hg at ≥3 months postoperatively (late low IOP). Physical signs
related to low IOP occurred in 61 eyes of 58 patients, and 40 eyes of 37 patients
had revision surgery for low IOP. Physical signs of low IOP included 34 eyes with
choroidal detachment or shallow anterior chamber, 10 with hypotony maculopathy,
and 7 with both. Compared with 187 control eyes of 165 patients, risk factors for
late low IOP included: surgeon 2 (P=0.0003), left eyes (P=0.03), and secondary
glaucoma (P=0.05). Physical signs of low IOP were more common in phakic eyes
(P=0.03), whereas need for revision surgery was associated with younger age
(P=0.01). The presence of hypotony maculopathy significantly decreased the risk
of choroidal detachment/shallow anterior chamber (P=0.003). Hypotony maculopathy 
was associated with younger age (P=0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Late low IOP was more common with techniques used by 1 of 2 surgeons
and in eyes with secondary glaucoma. Clinical signs of low IOP were more common
in phakic eyes. Younger age was a risk factor for hypotony maculopathy. Hypotony 
maculopathy and choroidal detachment tend to occur in different eyes.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000008 
PMID: 24145291  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2014 Jun;71(12):2197-218. doi: 10.1007/s00018-013-1493-z. Epub
2013 Oct 19.

Focus on molecular events in the anterior chamber leading to glaucoma.

Saccà SC(1), Izzotti A.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Unit, Department of Head and Neck Pathologies, St Martino
Hospital, Viale Benedetto XV, 16132, Genoa, Italy, sergio.sacca@hsanmartino.it.

Primary open-angle glaucoma is a multifactorial disease that affects the retinal 
ganglion cells, but currently its therapy is to lower the eye pressure. This
indicates a definite involvement of the trabecular meshwork, key region in the
pathogenesis of glaucoma. This is the first target of glaucoma, and its
functional complexity is a real challenge to search. Its functions are those to
allow the outflow of aqueous humor and not the reflux. This article describes the
morphological and functional changes that happen in anterior chamber. The "primus
movens" is oxidative stress that affects trabecular meshwork, particularly its
endothelial cells. In these develops a real mitochondriopaty. This leads to
functional impotence, the trabecular meshwork altering both motility and
cytoarchitecture. Its cells die by apoptosis, losing barrier functions and
altering the aqueous humor outflow. All the morphological alterations occur that 
can be observed under a microscope. Intraocular pressure rises and the
malfunctioning trabecular meshwork endotelial cells express proteins that
completely alter the aqueous humor. This is a liquid whose functional proteomics 
complies with the conditions of the trabecular meshwork. Indeed, in glaucoma, it 
is possible detect the presence of proteins which testify to what occurs in the
anterior chamber. There are six classes of proteins which confirm the vascular
endothelium nature of the anterior chamber and are the result of the
morphofunctional trabecular meshwork decay. It is possible that, all or in part, 
these proteins can be used as a signal to the posterior pole.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-013-1493-z 
PMID: 24142347  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Semin Ophthalmol. 2013 Sep-Nov;28(5-6):301-5. doi: 10.3109/08820538.2013.825291.

The genetics of intraocular pressure.

Ojha P(1), Wiggs JL, Pasquale LR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts Eye and Ear
Infirmary, Boston , Massachusetts , USA and.

Glaucoma is a leading cause of irreversible blindness. Intraocular pressure (IOP)
is the only modifiable risk factor for glaucoma, yet there is little known about 
the molecular events that regulate IOP. Genetic and genomic studies have helped
identify genes that influence IOP and could lead to the identification of
biological pathways that serve as targets for novel pressure-modifying therapies.
Genetic linkage studies resulted in the identification of several genes that
cause Mendelian (autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive) forms of
high-pressure glaucoma, including MYOC. PITX2, FOXC1, and CYP1B1. Classical twin 
studies suggest that IOP is a heritable trait. More recently, genome-wide
association studies (GWAS) have shown that common genetic variants in the GAS7
and TMCO1 genomic regions are associated with elevated IOP. TMCO1 has also been
associated with primary open-angle glaucoma in patients with advanced disease. A 
further study identifying additional genes contributing to IOP will be necessary 
to fully define the underlying genetic architecture of IOP.

DOI: 10.3109/08820538.2013.825291 
PMID: 24138038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Jan-Feb;42(1):25-32. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12234. Epub 2013 
Oct 30.

Chromosome 9p21 primary open-angle glaucoma susceptibility locus: a review.

Ng SK(1), Casson RJ, Burdon KP, Craig JE.

Author information: 
(1)South Australian Institute of Ophthalmology, Royal Adelaide Hospital,
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia; University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South
Australia, Australia.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a genetically complex disease. Genome-wide 
association study (GWAS) is a particularly useful tool in the search for genetic 
contributions to glaucoma. Recently, chromosome 9p21 has become a major focus of 
research endeavour, with multiple genome-wide association studies suggesting
associations to POAG. Herein, we provide a review of the chromosome 9p21
susceptibility locus as a risk factor for POAG.

© 2013 Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12234 
PMID: 24112133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2014 Jan;23(1):81-95. doi:
10.1517/13543784.2013.840288. Epub 2013 Oct 7.

Rho-kinase inhibitors offer a new approach in the treatment of glaucoma.

Challa P(1), Arnold JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University, Ophthalmology , 2351 Erwin Road, Durham 27710 , USA
pratap.challa@duke.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause for worldwide
blindness and is characterized by progressive optic nerve damage. The etiology of
POAG is unknown, but elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) and advanced age have
been identified as risk factors. IOP reduction is the only known treatment for
glaucoma. Recently, drugs that inhibit rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) have 
been studied in animals and people for their ability to lower IOP and potentially
treat POAG. ROCK inhibitors lower IOP through a trabecular mechanism and may
represent a new therapeutic paradigm for the treatment of POAG.
AREAS COVERED: Exploring the place that ROCK inhibitors may occupy in our
treatment of POAG requires a thorough understanding of pathophysiology and
treatment. This article summarizes current research on the incidence, proposed
etiologies and mechanisms of action for this drug class. ROCK inhibitor research 
is presented and considered in light of the current standard of pharmacologic
care.
EXPERT OPINION: ROCK inhibitors alter the cell shape and extracellular matrix
(ECM) of the trabecular meshwork. Preclinical studies demonstrate that these
drugs have the potential to become a new therapy for glaucoma. However, ROCK
inhibitors can affect multiple cell types, and their utility can be proven only
after clinical studies in patients.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.2013.840288 
PMID: 24094075  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Oman J Ophthalmol. 2013 May;6(2):92-5. doi: 10.4103/0974-620X.116635.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty: Does energy dosage predict response?

Habib L(1), Lin J, Berezina T, Holland B, Fechtner RD, Khouri AS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Rutgers New Jersey Medical
School, Newark, NJ USA.

BACKGROUND: Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) is a widely used treatment for 
open angle glaucoma, producing sustained reductions of intraocular pressure
(IOP). The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term relationship between
SLT energy dosage and IOP reduction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review was performed for patients
receiving primary SLT therapy, with inclusion of subjects treated with 360° of
SLT. Energy settings were collected upon treatment and IOP was collected at
baseline up to 36 months. Pearson's correlation coefficient was used to determine
whether there was a significant correlation between SLT energy and IOP reduction 
at all time points. Kaplan-Meier analysis with log-rank test was performed to
determine the differences in IOP reduction ≥20% from baseline among those treated
with low (<85 mJ), medium (85-105 mJ), and high (>105 mJ) energy SLT.
RESULTS: A total of 104 eyes (75 patients) were included. The mean total SLT
energy was 93.73 mJ (standard deviation (SD) = 21.83 mJ, range: 34.4-122 mJ). A
significant positive correlation (P ≤ 0.05) between the amount of energy
delivered and IOP reduction was found at all time points. Log-rank test showed a 
significant difference in IOP reduction ≥20% from baseline between the three
energy groups, with low energy patients experiencing failure at an earlier time
(P = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Within the range of total energy examined, there is a positive
correlation between total energy used and amount of pressure reduction achieved
at up to 3 years of follow-up. This may be useful in determining the optimal
energy dosage for maximum effect for patients receiving SLT.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-620X.116635 
PMCID: PMC3779422
PMID: 24082666  [PubMed]


185. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2013 Nov;37:31-67. doi: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2013.09.001.
Epub 2013 Sep 19.

The vast complexity of primary open angle glaucoma: disease genes, risks,
molecular mechanisms and pathobiology.

Janssen SF(1), Gorgels TG, Ramdas WD, Klaver CC, van Duijn CM, Jansonius NM,
Bergen AA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Ophthalmogenetics, The Netherlands
Institute for Neuroscience (NIN), Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences 
(KNAW), Meibergdreef 47, 1105 BA Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Prog Retin Eye Res. 2014 Mar;39:107-8.
    Prog Retin Eye Res. 2014 Mar;39:108-10.

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a complex progressive optic nerve
neuropathy triggered by both environmental and genetic risk factors. Several
ocular tissues, including the ciliary body, trabecular meshwork and optic nerve
head, and perhaps even brain tissues, are involved in a chain of pathological
events leading to POAG. Genetic risk evidence for POAG came from family
linkage-studies implicating a small number of disease genes (MYOC, OPTN, WDR36). 
Recent Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAS) identified a large number of new
POAG loci and disease genes, such as CAV1, CDKN2B and GAS7. In the current study,
we reviewed over 120 family and GWA studies. We selected in total 65 (candidate) 
POAG disease genes and proceeded to assess their function, mRNA expression in
POAG relevant eye tissues and possible changes in disease state. We found that
the proteins corresponding to these 65 (candidate) POAG disease genes take part
in as few as four common functional molecular networks. Functions attributed to
these 4 networks were developmental (dys)function, lipid metabolism, and
inflammatory processes. For the 65 POAG disease genes, we reviewed the available 
(transgenic) mouse models of POAG, which may be useful for future functional
studies. Finally, we showed that the 65 (candidate) POAG genes substantially
increased the specificity and sensitivity of a discriminative POAG risk test.
This suggests that personal risk assessment and personalized medicine for POAG
are on the horizon. Taken together, the data presented are essential to
comprehend the role of genetic variation in POAG, and may provide leads to
understand the pathophysiology of POAG as well as other neurodegenerative
disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2013.09.001 
PMID: 24055863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Kardiol Pol. 2013;71(8):869-74. doi: 10.5603/KP.2013.0204.

[Hypotensive therapy in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Krasińska B(1), Kocięcki J, Krasiński Z, Tykarski A.

Author information: 
(1)Klinika Hipertensjologii, Angiologii i Chorób Wewnętrznych.
bkrasinska@poczta.onet.pl.

DOI: 10.5603/KP.2013.0204 
PMID: 24049032  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Minerva Med. 2013 Aug;104(4):471-85.

An internal medicine perspective review of risk factors for assessing and
progression of primary open angle glaucoma.

Actis AG(1), Dall'Orto L, Penna R, Brogliatti B, Rolle T.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Section, Eye Clinic, Department of Clinical Physiopathology,
University of Torino, Turin, Italy - alessandro.actis@gmail.com.

Aim of this review was to resume risk factors for the assess and progression of
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), particularly considering systemic risk
factors that can be associated with glaucomatous damage. If intraocular pressure 
is the main risk factor, we must consider carefully familiarity, age, gender and 
possible associations with diabetes, hypertension, vascular autoregulation
disorders, hypo- and hyperthyroidism, hypo- and hyperadrenalism, sleep apnea
syndrome, corticosteroids therapies and other suspected factors cited in
literature. Glaucoma's etiology remains unknown, its physiopathology is poorly
understood and its diagnosis is often difficult. It is the leading cause of
irreversible blindness worldwide and it is the real "silent thief of sight"
because the loss of vision often occurs gradually over a long period of time, and
symptoms only occur when the disease is quite advanced. Cost-effectiveness
analyses for POAG screening are weighted by the degree of uncertainty that
glaucoma screening can be effective and reliable achieved. Addressing patients to
an ophthalmologic investigation on the basis of the identified risk factors is a 
fundamental preventing measure.


PMID: 24008609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Acupunct Med. 2013 Dec;31(4):416-21. doi: 10.1136/acupmed-2013-010403. Epub 2013 
Sep 5.

Sensory stimulation for lowering intraocular pressure, improving blood flow to
the optic nerve and neuroprotection in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Rom E.

Primary open-angle glaucoma is a group of optic neuropathies that can lead to
irreversible blindness. Sensory stimulation in the form of acupuncture or ear
acupressure may contribute to protecting patients from blindness when used as a
complementary method to orthodox treatment in the form of drops, laser or
surgery. The objective of this article is to provide a narrative overview of the 
available literature up to July 2012. It summarises reported evidence on the
potential beneficial effects of sensory stimulation for glaucoma. Sensory
stimulation appears to significantly enhance the pressure-lowering effect of
orthodox treatments. Studies suggest that it may also improve blood flow to the
eye and optic nerve head. Furthermore, it may play a role in neuroprotection
through regulating nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor and 
their receptors, thereby encouraging the survival pathway in contrast to the
pathway to apoptosis. Blood flow and neuroprotection are areas that are not
directly influenced by orthodox treatment modalities. Numerous different
treatment protocols were used to investigate the effect of sensory stimulation on
intraocular pressure, blood flow or neuroprotection of the retina and optic nerve
in the animal model and human pilot studies. Objective outcomes were reported to 
have been evaluated with Goldmann tonometry, Doppler ultrasound techniques and
electrophysiology (pattern electroretinography, visually evoked potentials), and 
supported with histological studies in the animal model. Taken together, reported
evidence from these studies strongly suggests that sensory stimulation is worthy 
of further research.

DOI: 10.1136/acupmed-2013-010403 
PMID: 24008011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Ophthalmic Genet. 2015 Mar;36(1):89-91. doi: 10.3109/13816810.2013.833635. Epub
2013 Sep 3.

A novel CYP1B1 mutation with congenital glaucoma and total aniridia.

Alzuhairy S(1), Abu-Amero KK, Al-Shahwan S, Edward DP.

Author information: 
(1)King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital , Riyadh , Kingdom of Saudi Arabia .

PURPOSE: Primary congenital glaucoma is a common disorder in the Middle East
mainly caused by mutations in the the CYP1Bl gene. We report a family with three 
siblings that presented with recalcitrant childhood glaucoma, aniridia in two
siblings with a novel CYP1B1 gene mutation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Review of pedigree, clinical history and clinical course
of the family. Genetic testing in the affected family members.
RESULTS: Three sisters presented with clinical findings of severe congenital
glaucoma and a positive family history. Clinical examination of two of sisters
revealed corneal scarring, bilateral aniridia with severe glaucoma that required 
multiple surgical procedures to control intraocular pressure. The third sibling
presented with garden-variety primary congenital glaucoma. Genetic analysis
revealed a novel CYP1B1 gene mutation (g.8291 C > T; p.S485F).
CONCLUSION: CYP1B1 mutation related congenital glaucoma can present with an
extreme form of anterior segment dysgenesis that includes recalcitrant glaucoma, 
corneal opacification and aniridia.

DOI: 10.3109/13816810.2013.833635 
PMID: 24001018  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


190. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2013 Sep-Dec;7(3):121-7. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1149. Epub 2013 Sep 6.

Surgical Decisions in Primary Open Angle Glaucoma with Low or Normal Tension.

Shum JW(1), Leung D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Eye Institute, Queen Mary Hospital,
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Hong Kong
Sanatorium and Hospital; Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences Hong
Kong Eye Hospital, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.

Glaucoma, given its insidious nature, is often coined 'the sneak thief of sight'.
Following this trail of thought, primary open angle glaucoma with low or normal
tension (POAGLNT) could be coined 'the king of thieves'. The lack of a compelling
red fag of high intraocular pressure (IOP), together with the diurnal fuctuation 
of the deceptively low baseline IOP, POAGLNT poses a therapeutic challenge in
terms of judging when to intervene, and how. In this review article, we will
outline the considerations before undergoing surgery: risk stratification,
defining goal in terms of target pressure and IOP modulation. We will also review
the strengths, weaknesses and pearls of available options. How to cite this
article: Shum JW, Leung DY. Surgical Decisions in Primary Open Angle Glaucoma
with Low or Normal Tension. J Current Glau Prac 2013;7(3):121-127.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1149 
PMCID: PMC4741152
PMID: 26997795  [PubMed]


191. Ophthalmology. 2013 Oct;120(10):1985-97. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.05.034. Epub 
2013 Aug 23.

Evaluation of the anterior chamber angle in glaucoma: a report by the american
academy of ophthalmology.

Smith SD(1), Singh K, Lin SC, Chen PP, Chen TC, Francis BA, Jampel HD.

Author information: 
(1)Cleveland Clinic Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the published literature pertaining to the association
between anterior segment imaging and gonioscopy and to determine whether such
imaging aids in the diagnosis of primary angle closure (PAC).
METHODS: Literature searches of the PubMed and Cochrane Library databases were
last conducted on July 6, 2011. The searches yielded 371 unique citations.
Members of the Ophthalmic Technology Assessment Committee Glaucoma Panel reviewed
the titles and abstracts of these articles and selected 134 of possible clinical 
significance for further review. The panel reviewed the full text of these
articles and identified 79 studies meeting the inclusion criteria, for which the 
panel methodologist assigned a level of evidence based on a standardized grading 
scheme adopted by the American Academy of Ophthalmology. Three, 70, and 6 studies
were rated as providing level I, II, and III evidence, respectively.
RESULTS: Quantitative and qualitative parameters defined from ultrasound
biomicroscopy (UBM), anterior segment optical coherence tomography (OCT),
Scheimpflug photography, and the scanning peripheral anterior chamber depth
analyzer (SPAC) demonstrate a strong association with the results of gonioscopy. 
There is substantial variability in the type of information obtained from each
imaging method. Imaging of structures posterior to the iris is possible only with
UBM. Direct imaging of the anterior chamber angle (ACA) is possible using UBM and
OCT. The ability to acquire OCT images in a completely dark environment allows
greater sensitivity in detecting eyes with appositional angle closure. Noncontact
imaging using OCT, Scheimpflug photography, or SPAC makes these methods more
attractive for large-scale PAC screening than contact imaging using UBM.
CONCLUSIONS: Although there is evidence suggesting that anterior segment imaging 
provides useful information in the evaluation of PAC, none of these imaging
methods provides sufficient information about the ACA anatomy to be considered a 
substitute for gonioscopy. Longitudinal studies are needed to validate the
diagnostic significance of the parameters measured by these instruments for
prospectively identifying individuals at risk for PAC.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after 
the references.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.05.034 
PMID: 23978623  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Hum Mol Genet. 2013 Oct 15;22(R1):R59-65. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddt396. Epub 2013 Aug 
19.

Advances in the genomics of common eye diseases.

Cooke Bailey JN, Sobrin L, Pericak-Vance MA, Haines JL, Hammond CJ, Wiggs JL.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and other genomic technologies have
accelerated the discovery of genes and genomic regions contributing to common
human ocular disorders with complex inheritance. Age-related macular degeneration
(AMD), diabetic retinopathy (DR), glaucoma and myopia account for the majority of
visual impairment worldwide. Over 19 genes and/or genomic regions have been
associated with AMD. Current investigations are assessing the clinical utility of
risk score panels and therapies targeting disease-specific pathways. DR is the
leading cause of blindness in the United States and globally is a major cause of 
vision loss. Genomic investigations have identified molecular pathways associated
with DR in animal models which could suggest novel therapeutic targets. Three
types of glaucoma, primary-open-angle glaucoma (POAG), angle-closure glaucoma and
exfoliation syndrome (XFS) glaucoma, are common age-related conditions. Five
genomic regions have been associated with POAG, three with angle-closure glaucoma
and one with XFS. Myopia causes substantial ocular morbidity throughout the
world. Recent large GWAS have identified >20 associated loci for this condition. 
In this report, we present a comprehensive overview of the genes and genomic
regions contributing to disease susceptibility for these common blinding ocular
disorders and discuss the next steps toward translation to effective gene-based
screening tests and novel therapies targeting the molecular events contributing
to disease.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddt396 
PMCID: PMC3782072
PMID: 23962718  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Ophthalmology. 2013 Dec;120(12):2462-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.05.019. Epub
2013 Aug 2.

Resident compliance with the american academy of ophthalmology preferred practice
pattern guidelines for primary open-angle glaucoma.

Ong SS(1), Sanka K, Mettu PS, Brosnan TM, Stinnett SS, Lee PP, Challa P.

Author information: 
(1)Duke Eye Center, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina;
Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore, Republic of Singapore.

PURPOSE: To examine resident adherence to preferred practice pattern (PPP)
guidelines set up by the American Academy of Ophthalmology for follow-up care of 
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred three charts were selected for analysis from all
patients with an International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, code
of open-angle glaucoma or its related entities who underwent a follow-up
evaluation between July 2, 2003, and December 15, 2004, at the resident
ophthalmology clinic in the Durham Veteran Affairs Medical Center.
METHODS: Follow-up visits of POAG patients were evaluated for documentation of 19
elements in accordance to PPP guidelines.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Compliance rates for the 19 elements of PPP guidelines
first were averaged in all charts, and then were averaged per resident and were
compared among 8 residents between their first and second years of residency.
RESULTS: The overall mean compliance rate for all 19 elements was 82.6% for all
charts (n = 103), 78.8% for first-year residents, and 81.7% for second-year
residents. The increase from first to second year of residency was not
significant (P>0.05). Documentation rates were high (>90%) for 14 elements,
including all components of the physical examination and follow-up as well as
most components of the examination history and management plan. Residents
documented adjusting target intraocular pressure downward, local or systemic
problems with medications, and impact of visual function on daily living
approximately 50% to 80% of the time. Documentation rates for components of
patient education were the lowest, between 5% and 16% in all charts.
CONCLUSIONS: Residents' compliance with PPP guidelines for a POAG follow-up visit
was very high for most elements, but documentation rates for components of
patient education were poor. Adherence rates to PPP guidelines can be used as a
tool to evaluate and improve resident performance during training. However,
further studies are needed to establish the advantages of using PPP guidelines
for resident education and to determine if such assessments can lead to improved 
patient care.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.05.019 
PMID: 23916487  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Trends Mol Med. 2013 Oct;19(10):586-93. doi: 10.1016/j.molmed.2013.06.005. Epub
2013 Jul 19.

A molecular mechanism for glaucoma: endoplasmic reticulum stress and the unfolded
protein response.

Anholt RR(1), Carbone MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and W.M. Keck Center for Behavioral Biology,
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695-7617, USA. Electronic address:
anholt@ncsu.edu.

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a common late-onset neurodegenerative
disease. Ocular hypertension represents a major risk factor, but POAG etiology
remains poorly understood. Some cases of early-onset congenital glaucoma and
adult POAG are linked to mutations in myocilin, a secreted protein of poorly
defined function. Transgenic overexpression of myocilin in Drosophila and
experiments in mice and human populations implicate the unfolded protein response
(UPR) in the pathogenesis of glaucoma. We postulate that compromised ability of
the UPR to eliminate misfolded mutant or damaged proteins, including myocilin,
causes endoplasmic reticulum stress, resulting in functional impairment of
trabecular meshwork cells that regulate intraocular pressure. This mechanism of
POAG is reminiscent of other age-dependent neurodegenerative diseases that
involve accumulation of protein aggregates.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molmed.2013.06.005 
PMCID: PMC3795998
PMID: 23876925  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


195. J Hum Reprod Sci. 2013 Jan;6(1):79-81. doi: 10.4103/0974-1208.112389.

Oral contraceptive pills: A risk factor for retinal vascular occlusion in
in-vitro fertilization patients.

Aggarwal RS(1), Mishra VV, Aggarwal SV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Institute of Kidney Diseases and
Transplantation Sciences, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India.

Retinal vascular occlusion is the most common cause of retinopathy leading to
severe visual loss in all age groups. Central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) is
usually seen in older age group and is often associated with systemic vascular
diseases. Although the exact cause and effect relationship has not been proven,
central retinal vein occlusion has been associated with various systemic
pathological conditions, hence a direct review of systems toward the various
systemic and local factors predisposing the central retinal vein occlusion is
advocated. We describe the development of central retinal venous occlusion with
associated cystoid macular edema (CME) in two healthy infertile women who were
recruited for in vitro fertilization cycle for infertility. Predisposing risk
factors associated with central retinal vein occlusion are obesity, sedentary
life style, smoking, and some systemic diseases such as hyperlipidemia,
hypertension, associated autoimmune disorders e.g., antiphospholipid antibody
syndrome, lupus, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disorders, bleeding or
clotting disorders, vasculitis, closed-head trauma, alcohol consumption, primary 
open-angle glaucoma or angle-closure glaucoma. In our patients, they were ruled
out afterdoing allpertaining investigations. The cases were managed with further 
avoidance of oral contraceptives and intra-vitreal injections of Bevacizumab
(Avastin), an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF drug) and
Triamcinolone acetonide (a long acting synthetic steroid). Hence, even if no
systemic diseases are detected. Physical examinations are recommended
periodically for young women on oral contraceptive pills.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-1208.112389 
PMCID: PMC3713585
PMID: 23869159  [PubMed]


196. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Mar;42(2):190-7. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12158. Epub 2013 Aug 
4.

Progress in understanding the association between high myopia and primary
open-angle glaucoma.

Ma F(1), Dai J, Sun X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eye & ENT Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China; Key Laboratory of Myopia, Ministry of Health PR China, Shanghai, China.

Many clinical and fundamental studies have shown that high myopia (HM) and
glaucoma are closely associated. In particular, the occurrence and progression of
primary open-angle glaucoma interact with the progression of HM. Two hypotheses
have been proposed to explain the association between the two disorders: the
hypertension gene theory and the collagen-related gene theory. HM and primary
open-angle glaucoma patients show similar collagen changes and hypersensitive
responses to glucocorticoids. Consequently, these common features may hold key
information regarding their underlying mechanisms. Advances in life sciences,
such as molecular genetics, provide opportunities for clarifying their
association at the molecular level. This article reviews available research on
the association between these two disorders from the perspectives of
epidemiology, clinical manifestation, diagnosis and pathogenic mechanisms.

© 2013 Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12158 
PMID: 23845009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Acta Ophthalmol. 2014 Aug;92(5):421-5. doi: 10.1111/aos.12203. Epub 2013 Jul 10.

Factors associated with lifetime risk of open-angle glaucoma blindness.

Peters D(1), Bengtsson B, Heijl A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, Ophthalmology, Lund University,
Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.

PURPOSE: To investigate factors associated with bilateral glaucoma blindness,
particularly factors available at the time of diagnosis.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of all patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) or pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (PEXG) followed at the Department
of Ophthalmology or Low Vision Center of Skåne University Hospital, Malmö,
Sweden, who died between January 2006 and June 2010. Disease stage at diagnosis
was defined by a simplified version of Mills' glaucoma staging system using
perimetric mean deviation (MD) to define six stages of severity. Blindness was
defined according to WHO criteria. We used logistic regression analysis to
examine the association between risk factors and glaucoma blindness.
RESULTS: Four hundred and 23 patients were included; 60% POAG and 40% PEXG.
Sixty-four patients (15%) became blind from glaucoma. Blind patients had
significantly longer mean duration with diagnosed disease than patients who did
not go blind (14.8 years ± 5.8 versus 10.6 years ± 6.5, p < 0.001). The risk of
blindness increased with higher intraocular pressure (IOP) (OR 1.08, 95% CI
1.03-1.13) and with each stage of more advanced field loss at time of diagnosis
(OR 1.80 95% CI 1.34-2.41). Older age at death was also associated with an
increased risk of blindness (OR 1.09 95% CI 1.03-1.14), while age at diagnosis
was unimportant. PEXG was not an independent risk factor for blindness.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher IOP and worse visual field status at baseline were important 
risk factors, as was older age at death.

© 2013 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12203 
PMID: 23837818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


198. J Glaucoma. 2015 Feb;24(2):95-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829d9be2.

Retrospective review of pars plana versus anterior chamber placement of Baerveldt
glaucoma drainage device.

Rososinski A(1), Wechsler D, Grigg J.

Author information: 
(1)*University of Sydney †Central Clinical School ††Sydney Medical School, The
University of Sydney ‡Australian School of Advanced Medicine, Macquarie
University §Concord Hospital ∥Liverpool Hospital ¶Department of Ophthalmology,
Save Sight Institute, Sydney Eye Hospital Campus #Sydney Eye Hospital **The
Children's Hospital Westmead, Sydney, Australia.

PURPOSE: To evaluate outcomes of pars plana (PP) versus anterior chamber (AC)
placement of Baerveldt glaucoma drainage device (GDD).
METHODS: This study is a nonrandomized, retrospective case series evaluating 63
eyes that underwent GDD insertion with Baerveldt 350 device under the supervision
of 2 surgeons at 5 centers. The drainage tube was either inserted into the AC or 
through the PP into the vitreous cavity where eyes had been vitrectomized.
Surgery was conducted between 2003 and 2010 with minimum patient follow-up of 6
months. Data on postoperative intraocular pressure (IOP), visual acuity, number
of hypotensive medications, and surgical complications were recorded.
RESULTS: Of the 63 drainage device surgeries, 34 tubes were placed in the AC and 
29 were placed into the posterior segment through the PP. Preoperative mean IOP
was 32.3±20.3 mm Hg in the AC group and 32.8±18.4 mm Hg in the PP group.
Postoperative mean IOP was reduced at all follow-up time points in both the
groups. Postoperative mean IOP in the anterior tube group was 14.0, 12.9, and
14.0 mm Hg and in the PP group was 14.2, 14.2, and 14.0 mm Hg, at the 1-, 2-, and
3-year follow-up, respectively. The qualified success rate at 2 years was 94% for
the PP group and 91% for the AC group, whereas absolute success was 35% for the
PP group and 27% for the AC group at 2-year follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Insertion of the tube of the Baerveldt GDD into the PP is a safe and
effective method for IOP control in aphakic, pseudophakic, and vitrectomized eyes
where there is a need to avoid anterior tube placement such as coexisting corneal
pathology. IOP control results appear comparable to conventional AC placement.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829d9be2 
PMID: 23787335  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


199. J Glaucoma. 2013 Jun-Jul;22 Suppl 5:S11-2. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829349a2.

Low cerebrospinal fluid pressure in the pathogenesis of primary open-angle
glaucoma: epiphenomenon or causal relationship? The Beijing Intracranial and
Intraocular Pressure (iCOP) study.

Wang N(1), Yang D, Jonas JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing Institute of 
Ophthalmology, Beijing, China.

Erratum in
    J Glaucoma. 2013 Sep;22(7):597. Yang, Diya [added].

Previous experimental and clinical investigations have suggested that some
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma may have an abnormally low orbital
cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP). A meta-analysis of available clinical data
showed a marked overlap in lumbar CSFP measurements between patients with
normal-tension glaucoma and healthy subjects, so that the question arises as to
which additional factors play a role in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic
neuropathy.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31829349a2 
PMID: 23733114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2013 Jul;230(7):692-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1328472. Epub 
2013 Jun 6.

[Symptoms and therapy for steroid glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Rüfer F(1), Uthoff D.

Author information: 
(1)Augenheilkunde, Augenklinik Bellevue, Lindenalle 21/23, Kiel.
f.ruefer@augenklinik-bellevue.de

In steroid responders, topical or systemic application of steroids leads to
extracellular deposits in the trabecular meshwork which increase trabecular
meshwork outflow resistance. 30-40 % of the normal population are steroid
responders. About 5 % develop an intraocular pressure (IOP) rise of > 15 mmHg.
These patients are termed "high responders". In patients with primary open angle 
glaucoma (POAG), the proportion of steroid responders sums up to 90 %. The extent
of steroid response depends on the kind of steroid used and on the duration of
its administration. Dexamethasone has the highest IOP increasing potency.
Differential diagnoses are POAG, ocular hypertension, normal tension glaucoma,
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma and secondary glaucoma due to different reasons. To
make the diagnosis, a detailed anamnesis is crucial. A recompensated IOP after
the end of steroid use proves the diagnosis. The treatment of steroid glaucoma
includes topical antiglaucoma medications, glaucoma filtration surgery,
trabeculotomy, and laser surgery. So far, only few comparative studies on
different treatment options have been published on steroid glaucoma. In some
cases of therapy-resistant IOP increases following intravitreal or
subconjunctival steroid administration, operative removal of the steroids can be 
considered. A gene therapy treatment of steroid glaucoma is still a topic of
research.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1328472 
PMID: 23757171  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Gene. 2013 Sep 10;526(2):80-6. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.05.032. Epub 2013 Jun 4.

Association of glutathione S-transferase polymorphisms (GSTM1 and GSTT1) with
primary open-angle glaucoma: an evidence-based meta-analysis.

Huang W(1), Wang W, Zhou M, Chen S, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.

Studies investigating the associations between glutathione S-transferase (GST)
genetic polymorphisms and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) have reported
controversial results. Therefore, a meta-analysis was performed to clarify the
effects of GSTM1 and GSTT1 polymorphisms on POAG risk. Published literatures from
PubMed, EMBASE, ISI Web of Science and CBM databases were retrieved. All studies 
evaluating the association between GSTM1/GSTT1 polymorphisms and POAG were
included. Pooled odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated
using fixed- or random-effects model. Eleven studies on GSTM1 (1339 cases and
1412 controls) and seven studies on GSTT1 (958 cases, 1003 controls) were
included. Overall analysis showed that the association between GSTM1 and GSTT1
null genotype and POAG risk is not statistically significant. Subgroup analyses
showed that the null genotype of GSTM1 increased the risk of POAG in Asians. In
GSTM1-GSTT1 interaction analysis, individuals with dual null genotype were
associated with a significantly increased risk of POAG when compared with the
dual present genotype. In conclusion, the present meta-analysis suggested that
GSTM1 null genotypes are associated with increased POAG risk in Asian populations
but not in Caucasian and mixed populations. Dual null genotype of GSTM1/GSTT1 is 
associated with increased risk of POAG. Given the limited sample size, the
finding on GST polymorphisms needs further investigation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.05.032 
PMID: 23747403  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Indian J Pharmacol. 2013 Mar-Apr;45(2):117-20. doi: 10.4103/0253-7613.108279.

Drug use in primary open angle glaucoma: a prospective study at a tertiary care
teaching hospital.

Yadav AK(1), Patel V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Geetanjali Medical College, Udaipur, Rajasthan,
India.

OBJECTIVE: To study drug use pattern in patients of primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) and to analyze the cost of different anti-glaucoma medications.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This prospective study was carried in the glaucoma clinic 
of a tertiary care teaching hospital over a period of 9 months. The data
collected for patients with POAG included the patient's demographic details and
the drugs prescribed. Data were analyzed for drug use pattern and cost drugs
used.
RESULTS: In a total 180 prescriptions (297 drugs) analyzed, most drugs (83.83%)
were prescribed by topical route as eye drops. β blockers (93.88%) were found to 
be the most frequently prescribed for POAG. Timolol (82.22%) was the most
frequently prescribed drug and timolol with acetazolamide (17.22%) was the most
commonly prescribed drug combination. Fixed dose combinations constituted 26.66% 
of prescriptions. β blockers were found to be cheaper than other anti-glaucoma
drugs while prostaglandins analogs were the costliest. Instructions about the
route, frequency and duration of treatment were present in all prescriptions.
However, instructions regarding instillation of eye drops were missing in all
prescriptions.

DOI: 10.4103/0253-7613.108279 
PMCID: PMC3660920
PMID: 23716884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Semin Ophthalmol. 2013 May;28(3):173-9. doi: 10.3109/08820538.2013.771202.

Clinical update on normal tension glaucoma.

Mudumbai RC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington,
USA. raghum@uw.edu

Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is a common form of open-angle glaucoma that can
lead to significant visual morbidity. There has been considerable debate as to
whether NTG fits within the spectrum of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The
relative roles of intraocular pressure and pressure-independent factors in this
disease have also been debated. This review provides an extensive analysis of key
clinical features, differential diagnoses, and potential pathophysiologic
mechanisms, both intraocular and systemic, of NTG. Findings of major clinical
trials and evidence-based guidelines for management are also reviewed.

DOI: 10.3109/08820538.2013.771202 
PMID: 23697620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


204. JAMA. 2013 May 15;309(19):2035-42. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.5099.

Do findings on routine examination identify patients at risk for primary
open-angle glaucoma? The rational clinical examination systematic review.

Hollands H(1), Johnson D, Hollands S, Simel DL, Jinapriya D, Sharma S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
hussein.hollands@yahoo.com

Comment in
    JAMA. 2013 Sep 11;310(10):1074.
    JAMA. 2013 Sep 11;310(10):1074-5.

IMPORTANCE: Glaucoma is the second leading cause of blindness worldwide, and its 
insidious onset is often associated with diagnostic delay. Since glaucoma
progression can often be effectively diminished when treated, identifying
individuals at risk for glaucoma could potentially lead to earlier detection and 
prevent associated vision loss.
OBJECTIVE: To quantify the diagnostic accuracy of examination findings and
relevant risk factors in identifying individuals with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG), the most common form of glaucoma in North America.
DATA SOURCES: Structured Medline (January 1950-January 2013) search and a hand
search of references and citations of retrieved articles yielding 57 articles
from 41 studies.
STUDY SELECTION: Population-based studies of high-level methods relating relevant
examination findings of cup-to-disc ratio (CDR), CDR asymmetry, intraocular
pressure (IOP), and demographic risk factors to the presence of POAG.
RESULTS: The summary prevalence of glaucoma in the highest-quality studies was
2.6% (95% CI, 2.1%-3.1%). Among risk factors evaluated, high myopia (≥6 diopters;
odds ratio [OR], 5.7; 95% CI, 3.1-11) and family history (OR, 3.3; 95% CI,
2.0-5.6) had the strongest association with glaucoma. Black race (OR, 2.9; 95%
CI, 1.4-5.9) and increasing age (especially age >80 years; OR, 2.9; 95% CI,
1.9-4.3) were also associated with an increased risk. As CDR increased, the
likelihood for POAG increased with a likelihood ratio (LR) of 14 (95% CI, 5.3-39)
for CDR of 0.7 or greater. Increasing CDR asymmetry was also associated with an
increased likelihood for POAG (CDR asymmetry ≥0.3; LR, 7.3; 95% CI, 3.3-16). No
single threshold for CDR or asymmetry ruled out glaucoma. The presence of a disc 
hemorrhage (LR, 12; 95% CI, 2.9-48) was highly suggestive of glaucoma, but the
absence of a hemorrhage was nondiagnostic (LR, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.83-0.98). At the
commonly used cutoff for high IOP (≥22), the LR was 13 (95% CI, 8.2-17), while
lower IOP made glaucoma less likely (LR, 0.65; 95% CI, 0.55-0.76). We found no
studies of screening examinations performed by generalist physicians in a routine
setting.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Individual findings of increased CDR, CDR asymmetry,
disc hemorrhage, and elevated IOP, as well as demographic risk factors of family 
history, black race, and advanced age are associated with increased risk for
POAG, but their absence does not effectively rule out POAG. The best available
data support examination by an ophthalmologist as the most accurate way to detect
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.5099 
PMID: 23677315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Ophthal Plast Reconstr Surg. 2014 Mar-Apr;30(2):e32-5. doi:
10.1097/IOP.0b013e318291665c.

Repair of eyelid retraction due to a trabeculectomy bleb: case series and review 
of the literature.

Shue A(1), Joseph JM, Tao JP.

Author information: 
(1)The Gavin Herbert Eye Institute, University of California, Irvine, California,
U.S.A.

Superior limbal trabeculectomy remains a common surgical treatment for glaucoma. 
Positional effects on the overlying upper eyelid-both ptosis and retraction-have 
been associated with the procedure. More than 1 mechanism may explain retraction;
however, the eyelid may elevate mechanically due to the underlying raised
superior bulbar conjunctiva.

DOI: 10.1097/IOP.0b013e318291665c 
PMID: 23645356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


206. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2013 May-Aug;7(2):39-42. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1135. Epub 2013 May 9.

Pattern Electroretinography Changes in Patients with Established or Suspected
Primary Open Angle Glaucoma.

Ganekal S(1), Dorairaj S(2), Jhanji V(3).

Author information: 
(1)Nayana Super Speciality Eye Hospital and Research Center Davangere, Karnataka,
India. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Florida USA.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong.

PURPOSE: To assess pattern electroretinogram (PERG) changes in patients with
established or suspected primary open angle glaucoma (POAG).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Transient PERG using LV Prasad eye electrodes were
performed in 76 normal, 32 glaucomatous and 22 glaucoma suspect eyes. The P50
amplitude, N95 amplitude and P50 latency were analyzed. The results were further 
analyzed with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and discriminant
function analysis (DFA).
RESULTS: The P50 and N95 amplitude of the POAG and glaucoma suspect groups were
significantly reduced. There was significant shortening in the P50 latency in the
POAG and glaucoma suspect groups. DFA using the P50 amplitude, N95 amplitude and 
P50 latency waveform parameters showed a sensitivity and specificity of 76.67 and
88.57% respectively.
CONCLUSION: Pattern ERG demonstrated significant changes in POAG patients and
suspects. ROC curves for the three wave parameters demonstrated that N95
amplitude was the better indicator for diagnosis of POAG when used individually. 
How to cite this article: Ganekal S, Dorairaj S, Jhanji V. Pattern
Electroretinography Changes in Patients with Established or Suspected Primary
Open Angle Glaucoma. J Current Glau Prac 2013;7(2):39-42.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1135 
PMCID: PMC4741181
PMID: 26997780  [PubMed]


207. Am J Ophthalmol. 2013 Jul;156(1):5-14.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2013.03.003. Epub
2013 Apr 19.

Senescent changes in cerebrospinal fluid circulatory physiology and their role in
the pathogenesis of normal-tension glaucoma.

Wostyn P(1), De Groot V, Van Dam D, Audenaert K, De Deyn PP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, PC Sint-Amandus, Beernem, Belgium.
wostyn.peter@skynet.be

PURPOSE: To evaluate the evidence supporting a role for senescent changes in
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) circulatory physiology in the pathogenesis of
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG).
DESIGN: Literature review and personal perspective of the authors.
METHODS: Analysis of selected articles in the peer-reviewed literature with
interpretation and perspective.
RESULTS: Recent studies have reported that intracranial pressure is lower in
patients with NTG when compared with patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
and nonglaucomatous control subjects. It has been suggested that a low
intracranial pressure in patients with normal intraocular pressure could lead to 
glaucomatous damage. This low intracranial pressure, leading to an abnormally
high trans-lamina cribrosa pressure difference, could result in barotraumatically
induced optic nerve damage at the lamina cribrosa. However, several experimental 
studies do not support the speculation that low intracranial pressure and the
resulting pressure-dependent effects cause bowing back of the lamina cribrosa and
optic disc cupping. On the other hand, CSF production and turnover have been
shown to be decreased in aging and in pathologic conditions, such as Alzheimer
disease and normal pressure hydrocephalus. Interestingly, recent studies have
revealed that both Alzheimer disease patients and patients with normal pressure
hydrocephalus may have a higher risk of developing glaucoma. Therefore, we
believe that CSF circulatory failure, ultimately resulting in reduced neurotoxin 
clearance along the optic nerves, could be an alternative explanation as to why
glaucoma develops in patients with low intracranial pressure.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of the evidence available from the peer-reviewed
literature, our tentative conclusion is that age-related changes in CSF
circulatory physiology and the subsequent decrease in CSF turnover, with
diminished clearance of toxic substances, can account for, at least in part, the 
pathogenesis of NTG. It should be stressed that for the moment at least, the
present hypothesis remains unproven. Further research will be necessary to
determine the possible role of CSF circulatory dysfunction in NTG. If confirmed, 
this hypothesis could provide new, important insights into the pathogenesis of
NTG.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2013.03.003 
PMID: 23608683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Biomed Res Int. 2013;2013:202905. doi: 10.1155/2013/202905. Epub 2013 Mar 18.

Integrins in trabecular meshwork and optic nerve head: possible association with 
the pathogenesis of glaucoma.

Zhong Y(1), Wang J, Luo X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ruijin Hospital Affiliated Medical School,
Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, 197 Rui Jin Er Road, Shanghai
200025, China. yszhong68@yahoo.com.cn

Integrins are a family of membrane-spanning proteins that are important receptors
for cell adhesion to extracellular matrix proteins. They also provide connections
between the extracellular environment and intracellular cytoskeletons and are
responsible for activation of many intracellular signaling pathways. In vitro and
in vivo data strongly indicate that integrin-mediated signaling events can
modulate the organization of the actin cytoskeleton in trabecular meshwork (TM)
cells and are associated with astrocyte migration and microglia activation of the
optic nerve head in patients with primary open angle glaucoma. Consequently,
increase in resistance in the TM outflow pathways and remodeling of the optic
nerve head occur, which in turn increases intraocular pressure (IOP), adds
additional mechanical stress and strain to optic nerve axons, and accelerates
damage of axons initially caused by optic nerve head remodeling. Integrins appear
to be ideal candidates for translating physical stress and strain into cellular
responses known to occur in glaucomatous optic neuropathy.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/202905 
PMCID: PMC3613054
PMID: 23586020  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


209. J Glaucoma. 2015 Jan;24(1):9-11. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318287ac75.

Ocular hypertension and the risk of blindness.

van Gestel A(1), Webers CA, Beckers HJ, Peeters A, Severens JL, Schouten JS.

Author information: 
(1)*University Eye Clinic †Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical
Technology Assessment, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht
‡Institute of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To estimate the risk of blindness in patients with ocular hypertension
(OHT) using an appropriate model and current empirical data.
DESIGN: A Markov model with data from a systematic literature review.
METHODS: A Markov model with 3 health states was built: OHT, primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG), and unilateral blindness. Literature was searched for reports on
conversion from OHT to POAG and progression from POAG to blindness, to estimate a
range of annual conversion and progression probabilities. The model had a cycle
length of 1 year.
RESULTS: The 15-year risk estimates ranged from 3.1% to 9.4% in untreated, and
from 0.9% to 8.6% in treated patients with OHT. The ranges were the result of
differences in patient populations, treatments, and outcome definitions in
currently available empirical data.
CONCLUSIONS: The best estimates of the 15-year risk of unilateral blindness in
patients with OHT, based on the currently available empirical data and an
appropriate model, show that the risk is <10%.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318287ac75 
PMID: 23524855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Ophthalmology. 2013 Jun;120(6):1113-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.11.038. Epub
2013 Mar 22.

Citation of previous meta-analyses on the same topic: a clue to perpetuation of
incorrect methods?

Li T(1), Dickersin K.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Clinical Trials, Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. tli@jhsph.edu

CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Systematic reviews and meta-analyses serve as a basis for
decision-making and clinical practice guidelines and should be carried out using 
appropriate methodology to avoid incorrect inferences.
TOPIC: We describe the characteristics, statistical methods used for
meta-analyses, and citation patterns of all 21 glaucoma systematic reviews we
identified pertaining to the effectiveness of prostaglandin analog eye drops in
treating primary open-angle glaucoma, published between December 2000 and
February 2012.
METHODS: We abstracted data, assessed whether appropriate statistical methods
were applied in meta-analyses, and examined citation patterns of included
reviews.
RESULTS: We identified two forms of problematic statistical analyses in 9 of the 
21 systematic reviews examined. Except in 1 case, none of the 9 reviews that used
incorrect statistical methods cited a previously published review that used
appropriate methods. Reviews that used incorrect methods were cited 2.6 times
more often than reviews that used appropriate statistical methods. We speculate
that by emulating the statistical methodology of previous systematic reviews,
systematic review authors may have perpetuated incorrect approaches to
meta-analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of incorrect statistical methods, perhaps through emulating 
methods described in previous research, calls conclusions of systematic reviews
into question and may lead to inappropriate patient care. We urge systematic
review authors and journal editors to seek the advice of experienced
statisticians before undertaking or accepting for publication a systematic review
and meta-analysis.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest
in any materials discussed in this article.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.11.038 
PMCID: PMC4730544
PMID: 23522971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Ophthalmology. 2013 Jun;120(6):1127-34. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.12.004. Epub
2013 Mar 1.

The Singapore 5-fluorouracil trial: intraocular pressure outcomes at 8 years.

Wong MH(1), Husain R, Ang BC, Gazzard G, Foster PJ, Htoon HM, Wong TT, Oen FT,
Khaw PT, Seah SK, Aung T.

Author information: 
(1)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore & Singapore Eye Research Institute,
Singapore.

OBJECTIVE: To report the 8-year outcomes of Asian subjects who underwent
trabeculectomy augmented by intraoperative 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or placebo.
DESIGN: Retrospective review of a randomized controlled trial.
PARTICIPANTS: Subjects with primary open-angle or angle-closure glaucoma.
METHODS: Study subjects were prospectively followed up for 3 years. After the
last subject recruited had completed 8 years of follow-up, the charts of all
subjects were reviewed to capture data from the year 3 visit onward. Kaplan-Meier
survival function with Cox regression was performed to identify risk factors
associated with trabeculectomy failure at 8 years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was trabeculectomy failure defined as 
intraocular pressure (IOP) >21 or <6 mmHg on 2 consecutive occasions after the
first 6 weeks after surgery, repeat glaucoma surgery, or loss of light
perception. Further end points were defined at IOP levels >17 and >14 mmHg.
Secondary outcomes included IOP at 8 years and number of glaucoma medications.
Complete success was defined using IOP end points ≤ 21, ≤ 17, or ≤ 14 mmHg at 8
years without medications.
RESULTS: Of the 243 enrolled subjects, 170 (70.0%) completed 8 years follow-up,
86 in the 5-FU and 84 in the placebo group. There was no significant difference
in failure rates at 8 years for the failure definitions of IOP >21 mmHg (11.6% of
the 5-FU group vs. 16.7% of the placebo group; P = 1.00), IOP >17 mmHg (23.3% of 
the 5-FU group vs. 31% of the placebo group; P = 0.78), and IOP >14 mmHg (46.5%
of the 5-FU group vs. 58.3% of the placebo group; P = 0.37). Mean IOP at 8 years 
was 13.7 mmHg in the 5-FU versus 14.4 mmHg in the placebo group (P = 0.24). Mean 
number of medications was 0.65 drops in the 5-FU versus 0.93 drops in the placebo
group (P = 0.06). Complete success with IOP ≤ 21 mmHg at 8 years was achieved in 
48 subjects (55.8%) in the 5-FU and 33 subjects (39.3%) in the placebo group (P =
0.09). Absence of bleb microcysts at 1 year, preoperative IOP, and number of bleb
needlings performed within the first year were significantly associated with
failure.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference in IOP between the 5-FU and the 
placebo group at 8 years.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest
in any materials discussed in this article.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.12.004 
PMID: 23466269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Surv Ophthalmol. 2013 May-Jun;58(3):278-85. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2012.11.003. Epub 2013 Mar 5.

A review of primary congenital glaucoma in the developing world.

Moore DB(1), Tomkins O, Ben-Zion I.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington, Department of Ophthalmology, Seattle, Washington,
USA.

Primary congenital glaucoma is the most common type of infantile glaucoma, yet it
remains a relatively rare disease. Treatment is principally surgical, and
management lasts a lifetime. In the developing world, delayed diagnosis, limited 
treatment, and inadequate follow-up lead to a heavier burden on the patient and
community. We highlight the epidemiology and genetics of the disease, its current
management and prognosis, and the limitations facing both providers and patients 
in the developing world. Further efforts are necessary to provide effective,
timely screening of children and allocate adequate resources to allow health care
workers to reduce the rate of avoidable blindness in developing countries.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2012.11.003 
PMID: 23465868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Feb 28;(2):CD006539. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD006539.pub3.

Neuroprotection for treatment of glaucoma in adults.

Sena DF(1), Lindsley K.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston,Massachusetts,
USA.sena.dayse@gmail.com.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;(2):CD006539.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is a heterogeneous group of conditions involving progressive
damage to the optic nerve, deterioration of retinal ganglion cells and ultimately
visual field loss. It is a leading cause of blindness worldwide. Open angle
glaucoma (OAG), the commonest form of glaucoma, is a chronic condition that may
or may not present with increased intraocular pressure (IOP). Neuroprotection for
glaucoma refers to any intervention intended to prevent optic nerve damage or
cell death.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review was to systematically examine the
evidence regarding the effectiveness of neuroprotective agents for slowing the
progression of OAG in adults.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision 
Group Trials Register) (The Cochrane Library 2012, Issue 9), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid
MEDLINE In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid
OLDMEDLINE, (January 1950 to October 2012), EMBASE (January 1980 to October
2012), Latin American and Caribbean Literature on Health Sciences (LILACS)
(January 1982 to October 2012), the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT)
(www.controlled-trials.com), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the 
WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP)
(www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions
in the electronic searches for trials. The electronic databases were last
searched on 16 October 2012.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in which
topical or oral treatments were used for neuroprotection in adults with
OAG. Minimum follow up time was four years.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently reviewed titles
and abstracts from the literature searches. Full-text copies of potentially
relevant studies were obtained and re-evaluated for inclusion. Two review authors
independently extracted data related study characteristics, risk of bias, and
outcome data. One trial was identified for this review, thus we performed no
meta-analysis. Two studies comparing memantine to placebo are currently awaiting 
classification until additional study details are provided. We documented reasons
for excluding studies from the review.
MAIN RESULTS: We included one multi-center RCT of adults with low-pressure
glaucoma (Low-pressure Glaucoma Treatment Study, LoGTS) conducted in the USA. The
primary outcome was visual field progression after four years of treatment with
either brimonidine or timolol. Of the 190 adults enrolled in the study, 12 (6.3%)
were excluded after randomization and 77 (40.5%) did not complete four years of
follow up. The rate of attrition was unbalanced between groups with more
participants dropping out of the brimonidine group (55%) than the timolol group
(29%). Of those remaining in the study at four years, participants assigned to
brimonidine showed less visual field progression than participants assigned to
timolol (5/45 participants in the brimonidine group compared with 18/56
participants in the timolol group). Since no information was available for the 12
participants excluded from the study, or the 77 participants who dropped out of
the study, we cannot draw any conclusions from these results as the participants 
for whom data are missing may or may not have progressed. The mean IOP was
similar in both groups at the four-year follow up among those for whom data were 
available: 14.2 mmHg (standard deviation (SD) = 1.9) among the 43 participants in
the brimonidine group and 14.0 mmHg (SD = 2.6) among the 48 participants in the
timolol group. Among the participants who developed progressive visual field
loss, IOP reduction of 20% or greater was not significantly different between
groups: 4/9 participants in the brimonidine group and 12/31 participants in the
timolol group. The study authors did not report data for visual acuity or
vertical cup-disc ratio. The most frequent adverse event was ocular allergy to
study drug, which occurred more frequently in the brimonidine group (20/99
participants) than the timolol group (3/79 participants).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Although neuroprotective agents are intended to act as
pharmacological antagonists to prevent cell death, this trial did not provide
evidence that they are effective in preventing retinal ganglion cell death, and
thus preserving vision in people with OAG. Further clinical research is needed to
determine whether neuroprotective agents may be beneficial for individuals with
OAG. Such research should focus outcomes important to patients, such as
preservation of vision, and how these outcomes relate to cell death and optic
nerve damage. Since OAG is a chronic, progressive disease with variability in
symptoms, RCTs designed to measure the effectiveness of neuroprotective agents
would require long-term follow up (more than four years) in order to detect
clinically meaningful effects.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006539.pub3 
PMCID: PMC4261923
PMID: 23450569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


214. J Glaucoma. 2014 Dec;23(9):616-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318287abb7.

Long-term outcomes of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) treatment in
pigmentary glaucoma patients.

Ayala M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Department, St. Erik Eye Hospital, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to assess the long-term efficacy of
selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) treatment in patients suffering from
pigmentary glaucoma (PG).
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of eyes suffering from PG that underwent SLT 
between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2006. The primary outcome measure was
time to failure after SLT treatment. Failure after SLT was defined as any 1 or
more of the following: <20% intraocular pressure reduction, change in the medical
treatment, performance of a further SLT treatment, and the patient being sent for
surgery. All patients were treated over 180 degrees with SLT.
RESULTS: Thirty eyes of thirty patients were identified. The average time to
failure after SLT was 27.4 months. The success rate after 12 months was 85%,
after 24 months 67%, after 36 months 44%, and after 48 months 14%.
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term effects of SLT in PG when eyes were treated over 180
degrees seem to be low.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318287abb7 
PMID: 23429632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Ann Intern Med. 2013 Feb 19;158(4):271-9. doi:
10.7326/0003-4819-158-4-201302190-00008.

Comparative effectiveness of treatments for open-angle glaucoma: a systematic
review for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.

Boland MV(1), Ervin AM, Friedman DS, Jampel HD, Hawkins BS, Vollenweider D,
Chelladurai Y, Ward D, Suarez-Cuervo C, Robinson KA.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is an acquired degeneration of the optic nerve and a leading
cause of blindness worldwide. Medical and surgical treatments that decrease
intraocular pressure may prevent visual impairment and blindness.
PURPOSE: To compare the effectiveness of medical, laser, and surgical treatments 
in adults with open-angle glaucoma with regard to decreasing intraocular pressure
and preventing optic nerve damage, vision loss, and visual impairment.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, CENTRAL, and an existing database for systematic reviews
(through 2 March 2011); MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, and CENTRAL for primary studies 
(through 30 July 2012).
STUDY SELECTION: English-language systematic reviews; randomized, controlled
trials; and quasi-randomized, controlled trials for most outcomes and
observational studies for quality of life and harms.
DATA EXTRACTION: Two investigators abstracted or checked information about study 
design, participants, and outcomes and assessed risk of bias and strength of
evidence.
DATA SYNTHESIS: High-level evidence suggests that medical, laser, and surgical
treatments decrease intraocular pressure and that medical treatment and
trabeculectomy reduce the risk for optic nerve damage and visual field loss
compared with no treatment. The direct effect of treatments on visual impairment 
and the comparative efficacy of different treatments are not clear. Harms of
medical treatment are primarily local (ocular redness, irritation); surgical
treatment carries a small risk for more serious complications.
LIMITATION: Heterogeneous outcome definitions and measurements among the included
studies; exclusion of many treatment studies that did not stratify results by
glaucoma type.
CONCLUSION: Medical and surgical treatments for open-angle glaucoma lower
intraocular pressure and reduce the risk for optic nerve damage over the short to
medium term. Which treatments best prevent visual disability and improve
patient-reported outcomes is unclear.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-158-4-201302190-00008 
PMID: 23420235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Ethiop Med J. 2012 Jul;50(3):259-64.

The spectrum of glaucoma presentation at Menelik II Hospital, Addis Ababa.

Giorgis AT(1), Mulugeta A, Aga A, Deyassa N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Addis Ababa University. abebatgiorgis@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is a major cause of blindness in Africa. However, many do
not know if they have the disease until late.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to describe the type and severity of
glaucoma at presentation
METHODS: A hospital based prospective review of 602 glaucoma patients was
conducted over 18 month period ending in 2009. A special registry captured Socio 
demographic and clinical data at the glaucoma clinic of Menelik II Hospital in
Addis Ababa. The vertical cup disc ratio (CDR) of the optic nerve head provided
the bases to stage, the severity of glaucoma.
RESULTS: Large portion of the total reviewed patients were men, 401 (66.6%) or
above the age of 40 years, 484 (80.4%). The mean intraocular pressure was 28.5
and 30.6 in the right and left eye in mmHg. The leading subtypes of glaucoma,
accounting 64.3% (n = 387), were Primary Open Angle Glaucoma, 227 (37.7%) and
Pseudo exfoliation glaucoma, 160 (26.6%). At presentation, 260 (44%) and 109
(18%)) were unilaterally and bilaterally blind (vision < 3/60) respectively.
Bilateral glaucoma was found in 464 (77%) and 366 (61%) presented with advanced
stage (CDR > or = 9.0). Cases with advanced stage were likely to present with
blindness [Odds Ratio (OR) -6.2 95% CI (3-8-10.1) and 6.9 95% CI (4.2-11.3)] or
high Intraocular pressure >30mmHg [OR=3.4, 95% CI (2.2 -5.2) and 2.8, 95% CI
(1.4-3.4)] in the respective right and left eyes. The stage, had no statistically
significant association with age, sex, residence or type of glaucoma (Chi2 test, 
p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: A large proportion of patients still arrive at glaucoma clinic with 
a very late stage of open angle glaucoma. Intervention strategies are requiredfor
early detection and treatment of glaucoma in Ethiopia.


PMID: 23409409  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Discov Med. 2013 Jan;15(80):17-22.

Genetic susceptibility to primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG).

Shastry BS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Oakland University, Rochester, MI 48309,
USA. shastry@oakland.edu

Glaucoma is a group of heterogeneous optic neuropathy and is the second leading
cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. The two most common clinical types of 
glaucoma include primary open-angle (POAG) and primary angle-closure glaucoma
(PACG). PACG is characterized by the closure of angles between iris and
trabecular meshwork (iridocorneal angles) mainly because of anatomic
abnormalities. The condition is more prevalent in Chinese, Asian Indians, and
Eskimos. Because of an unusually high incidence of PACG among siblings of
affected patients, it was suggested that genetic factors were involved in its
pathology and the action of a large number of grouped or independently inherited 
genes along with environmental factors result in anatomical abnormalities of
PACG. In PACG, the genetic basis is not well understood. Genome-wide association 
studies have identified several candidate genes in relation to PACG in several
different populations. However, they are not reproduced from population to
population or the results are controversial. This may indicate that the
involvement of genetic abnormality in the pathogenesis of PACG is complex. The
availability of spontaneously occurring large animal models such as dogs may
provide an opportunity to identify genes responsible for the pathophysiology of
PACG in the future. This article summarizes the current status of genetic
investigations on PACG which is the most common cause of blindness worldwide.


PMID: 23375010  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2013 Feb;27(1):34-8. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2013.27.1.34. Epub
2013 Jan 9.

Long-term results of deep sclerectomy with small collagen implant in Korean.

Rho S(1), Kang SY, Hong S, Seong GJ, Jung JJ, Kim CY.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To describe the long-term results of deep sclerectomy with collagen
implant (DSCI) with or without adjuvant mitomycin C in Korean patients with
primary or secondary open-angle glaucoma (OAG).
METHODS: This retrospective review was comprised of 65 Korean patients who
received DSCI with or without adjuvant mitomycin C due to primary or secondary
OAG. Patients were followed for 72 months after surgery. Complete success was
defined as intraocular pressure (IOP) <21 mmHg without medication and qualified
success was defined as IOP <21 mmHg with or without medication.
RESULTS: Mean postoperative follow-up period was 53.0 ± 16.2 months. Mean IOP was
30.5 ± 11.7 mmHg preoperatively, 8.4 ± 4.3 mmHg at postoperative day one and 13.4
± 3.8 mmHg 60 months after surgery. The mean number of glaucoma medications was
decreased from 3.6 ± 1.1 to 1.6 ± 1.3 at 60 months after the operation. Complete 
and qualified success rates were 36.7% and 79.6% at postoperative 60 months,
respectively (Kaplan-Meier survival curve). No shallow or flat anterior chamber, 
endophthalmitis, or surgery-induced significant cataract was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of DSCI in Korean patients presented here seem
reasonably excellent with qualified success rates of over 70% at six years with
negligible complications.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2013.27.1.34 
PMCID: PMC3550309
PMID: 23372377  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Acta Ophthalmol. 2013 Mar;91(2):e86-91. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02577.x.
Epub 2013 Jan 29.

Optic disc progression and rates of visual field change in treated glaucoma.

De Moraes CG(1), Liebmann JM, Park SC, Teng CC, Nemiroff J, Tello C, Ritch R.

Author information: 
(1)Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York,
NY, USA. demoraesmd@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between optic disc progression and rates
of visual field (VF) change in patients with treated glaucoma.
METHODS: Glaucoma patients with repeatable VF loss, ≥8 SITA-Standard 24-2 VF
tests and good quality optic disc stereophotographs evaluated over a 10-year
period were included. Optic disc photographs were reviewed for signs of glaucoma 
progression (neuroretinal rim change, widening of retinal nerve fibre layer
defect, disc haemorrhage and enlargement of beta-zone parapapillary atrophy) by
two glaucoma specialists masked to their temporal sequence. Disagreements were
adjudicated by a third grader. VF progression was evaluated using automated
pointwise linear regression (PLR) and defined as at least two adjacent test
points progressing >1.0 dB/year at p < 0.01. VF progression outcomes were
compared with photograph review results.
RESULTS: Three-hundred and eighty nine eyes (389 patients; mean age 64.9 ± 13.0
years; mean baseline MD, -7.1 ± 5.1 dB) were included. Most patients had primary 
open angle glaucoma (54%). Eighty-two eyes (21%) had confirmed optic disc
progression and 115 eyes (29%) met the VF PLR criteria. Eyes with documented
optic disc progression had more rapid rates of VF change (-0.66 ± 0.7 versus
-0.36 ± 0.7 dB/year, p < 0.01) and met the VF PLR endpoint more often (univariate
OR = 1.85, p = 0.02; multivariate OR = 1.78, p = 0.03) than eyes without optic
disc progression. There was moderate spatial consistency between the location of 
the optic disc progression and the hemifield with more rapid progression (81%,
kappa = 0.40).
CONCLUSIONS: Treated glaucomatous eyes with documented optic disc progression are
at increased risk of diminished visual function over time and may require more
aggressive therapy to prevent future vision loss. Among the indicators of
structural progression, disc haemorrhage was the single most significant
predictor for VF deterioration.

© 2013 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2013 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02577.x 
PMID: 23356423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Klin Oczna. 2012;114(2):135-7.

Influence of rheological factors on the development of primary open angle
glaucoma.

Michalska-Małecka K(1), Słowińska-Łozyńska L, Romaniuk W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital No 5 of the Medical
University of Silesia, Katowice, Poland. kasia@marat.com.pl

The aim of this study was to compare our non published investigation on the
effect of rheological factors on the development of primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG)--to literature data. POAG is a chronic eye disease characterised by a
slowly progressive neuropathy of the optic nerve with typical anatomical and
functional lesions and is associated with specific visual field defects.


PMID: 23346803  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2013 Feb;230(2):127-32. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1327946. Epub
2013 Jan 20.

[Mechanisms, clinical profile and role of prostaglandin and prostamide analogues 
in antiglaucomatous therapy].

[Article in German]

Yu A(1), Welge-Lüßen U.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Mathildenstrasse 8, Munich.
alice.yu@med.uni-muenchen.de

Prostaglandin and prostamide analogues belong to a new substance group which came
into the market in the 1990s. They have revolutionised antiglaucomatous therapy
by their once-daily dosing regimen and fewer side effects. Today, prostaglandin
and prostamide analogues are approved as first-line therapy for patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. They lower the intraocular
pressure primarily by increasing the uveoscleral outflow. Recent investigations
have shown that they also improve the trabecular outflow facility and thus the
conventional outflow pathways. Prostaglandin and prostamide analogues are highly 
efficient in lowering the intraocular pressure, for which they are superior to
other antiglaucomatous substance groups. In particular, they appear to have a
good control of 24-hour intraocular pressure fluctuations by primarily improving 
the outflow pathways. Furthermore, they have less systemic side effects than
β-blockers. However, their use is often associated with higher costs. In case of 
undesirable events, they mostly present with ocular symptoms. Based on their good
clinical profile, prostaglandin and prostamide analogues play an important role
in the primary and additive therapy for glaucoma.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1327946 
PMID: 23335086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Front Cell Neurosci. 2013 Jan 9;6:60. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2012.00060. eCollection 
2012.

Molecular mechanisms of retinal ganglion cell degeneration in glaucoma and future
prospects for cell body and axonal protection.

Munemasa Y(1), Kitaoka Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, St. Marianna University School of Medicine
Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.

Glaucoma, which affects more than 70 million people worldwide, is a heterogeneous
group of disorders with a resultant common denominator; optic neuropathy,
eventually leading to irreversible blindness. The clinical manifestations of
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), the most common subtype of glaucoma, include 
excavation of the optic disc and progressive loss of visual field. Axonal
degeneration of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and apoptotic death of their cell
bodies are observed in glaucoma, in which the reduction of intraocular pressure
(IOP) is known to slow progression of the disease. A pattern of localized retinal
nerve fiber layer (RNFL) defects in glaucoma patients indicates that axonal
degeneration may precede RGC body death in this condition. The mechanisms of
degeneration of neuronal cell bodies and their axons may differ. In this review, 
we addressed the molecular mechanisms of cell body death and axonal degeneration 
in glaucoma and proposed axonal protection in addition to cell body protection.
The concept of axonal protection may become a new therapeutic strategy to prevent
further axonal degeneration or revive dying axons in patients with preperimetric 
glaucoma. Further study will be needed to clarify whether the combination therapy
of axonal protection and cell body protection will have greater protective
effects in early or progressive glaucomatous optic neuropathy (GON).

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2012.00060 
PMCID: PMC3540394
PMID: 23316132  [PubMed]


223. J Glaucoma. 2014 Mar;23(3):169-73. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31826a9742.

Glaucoma screening using relative afferent pupillary defect.

Charalel RA(1), Lin HS, Singh K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo
Alto, CA.

PURPOSE: To assess the relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD) by swinging
flashlight as a potentially useful screening test for glaucomatous optic
neuropathy.
METHODS: One hundred seven subjects prospectively recruited from a mixed
population of glaucomatous and nonglaucomatous patients were examined for a RAPD 
by 1 individual masked with regard to disease presence. All subjects underwent a 
swinging flashlight test with, when necessary, the aid of neutral density
filters, to determine whether or not a RAPD was present. A determination of
glaucoma diagnosis, as well as classification of disease stage, was subsequently 
assessed based upon review of history and ophthalmic examination. This clinical
information regarding glaucomatous disease was ascertained without knowledge of
study RAPD status. The acquisition of such clinical information and performance
of swinging flashlight testing for RAPD was conducted by different individuals
with the latter being a nonophthalmologist.
RESULTS: Statistical analysis demonstrated an odds ratio of 9.71 (95% CI,
3.72-25.40) for glaucomatous disease if a RAPD was present, with a sensitivity of
66.7% and a specificity of 82.9%. Subanalysis of patients who had not previously 
undergone cataract surgery revealed an odds ratio of 17.05 (95% CI, 4.73-61.44)
for glaucomatous disease if a RAPD was present, with a sensitivity of 68.8% and a
specificity of 88.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: RAPD screening by a swinging flashlight test with neutral density
filters was moderately sensitive and strongly specific for glaucoma. Sensitivity,
specificity, and predictive value improved when patients who had previously
undergone cataract surgery were removed from the analysis.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31826a9742 
PMID: 23296370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Int J Ophthalmol. 2012;5(6):750-3. doi: 10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2012.06.18. Epub
2012 Dec 18.

High myopia as a risk factor in primary open angle glaucoma.

Chen SJ(1), Lu P, Zhang WF, Lu JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the Second Hospital of Lanzhou University,
Lanzhou 730030, Gansu Province, China.

Glaucoma, one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness in the adult
population worldwide, is a progressive optic neuropathy. Primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) is the most commonly reported type of glaucoma in population
based prevalence studies worldwide. Elevated intraocular pressure is a well-known
major risk factor for POAG. In addition, there is growing evidence that other
risk factors like age, gender, race, refractive error, heredity and systemic
factors may play a role in glaucoma pathogenesis. Many studies found that high
myopia has been associated with POAG, however, direct and convincing evidences
are still lacking. The aim of this review is to summarize the evidences
implicating high myopia as a risk factor in the pathogenesis of POAG.

DOI: 10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2012.06.18 
PMCID: PMC3530820
PMID: 23275912  [PubMed]


225. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2013 Jan-Apr;7(1):6-10. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1129. Epub 2013 Jan 15.

Presenting Visual Acuity and Ocular Comorbidity in Patients with Primary Open
Angle Glaucoma in a Private Tertiary Eye Center in Nigeria.

Duke R(1), Akinye A(2), Ameh S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Chief Consultant, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Calabar Teaching 
Hospital, Calabar, Cross River State, Nigeria. (2)Senior Registrar, Eye
Foundation Group of Hospitals, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria. (3)Consultant and Community
Physician, Department of Community Medicine, University of Calabar Teaching
Hospital, Calabar, Cross, River State, Nigeria; School of Public Health,
University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg South Africa.

PURPOSE: To determine the presenting visual acuity (VA) of patients with primary 
open angle glaucoma (POAG) and the relationship to ocular comorbidity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective case note audit was undertaken in Eye
Foundation Hospital, Calabar, between 1st January 2010 and 31st June 2011. The
case notes of all newly presenting patients diagnosed with POAG were retrieved
and data were extracted for analysis. Inclusion criteria for glaucoma was
defined.
RESULTS: Out of a total of 320 new patients, 88 patients were diagnosed with
POAG, with a prevalence of 27.5% (95% CI: 22.7-32.7). The mean age for males is
57.1 ± 8.8 while that of females is 52.6 ± 11.2 and the total mean of 55.8 ± 9.7.
Of the 88 patients, there were 84 self referrals [95.5% (95% CI: 88.8-98.7)], of 
these, 45, 53.6% (95% CI: 42.4-64.5) were for second opinion. There was no
statistical significance between the gender, education and occupation and the
level of VA seen on presentation. The best corrected visual acuity (BCVA ) in the
right and left eye respectively, was significantly (p < 0.0001) related to the
cup disk ratio. Ocular comorbid conditions were seen in 19 (22%) patients in the 
study. The presenting BCVA was significantly related to the presence of ocular
comorbidity in the best eye. Comorbidity was not strongly related to the age of
the patients.
CONCLUSION: The course of glaucomatous progression is highly variable,
identifying factors that not only predict progression but influence the VA and
ocular health of the eye can help to guide clinical practice and patient
treatment and monitoring. How to cite this article: Duke R, Akinye A, Ameh S.
Presenting Visual Acuity and Ocular Comorbidity in Patients with Primary Open
Angle Glaucoma in a Private Tertiary Eye Center in Nigeria. J Current Glau Prac
2013;7(1):6-10.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1129 
PMCID: PMC4741127
PMID: 26997773  [PubMed]


226. Neurosci J. 2013;2013:418320. doi: 10.1155/2013/418320. Epub 2012 Dec 6.

Significance of Visual Evoked Potentials in the Assessment of Visual Field
Defects in Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma: A Review.

Kothari R(1), Bokariya P(2), Singh S(3), Singh R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences,
Sevagram, Wardha 442102, India. (2)Department of Anatomy, Mahatma Gandhi
Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram, Wardha 442102, India. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram, Wardha
442102, India.

Visual evoked potentials is an important visual electrophysiological tool which
has been used for the evaluation of visual field defects in primary open-angle
glaucoma and is an appropriate objective measure of optic nerve function.
Significant correlations between the magnitude of the VEP parameters and MD of
Humphrey static perimetry suggest that the impaired visual cortical responses
observed in glaucoma patients can be revealed by both electrophysiological and
psychophysical methods. In addition, the severity of global glaucomatous damage
evidenced by reduction in MD could depend on the delay in neural conduction from 
retina to the visual cortex as revealed by the significant correlation between
VEP latencies and MD which also supports the validity of the VEP testing in
progression of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/418320 
PMCID: PMC4475581
PMID: 26317091  [PubMed]


227. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2013 Jan;197(1):133-9; discussion 140-1.

[From congenital glaucoma to chronic open angle glaucoma in adulthood: a clinical
and genetic continuum].

[Article in French]

Dufier JL, Rozet JM, Kaplan J, Roche O.

Congenital glaucoma, a true hydrocephalus of the eye, is defined by ocular
hypertension resulting in buphthalmos in children up to three years old, the
elasticity of the eye wall allowing its expansion. Juvenile glaucoma in teenagers
and chronic glaucoma in adults do not alter the external aspect of the eye, as
the eyeball has lost its elasticity. However, chronic ocular hypertension always 
causes ischemic excavation of the optic nerve head, leading to insidious
amputation of the visual field and, potentially, blindness. Like most
ophthalmological disorders, the different types of glaucoma have been shown to be
genetically determined, and alterations in several genes have been identified.
These altered genes can be expressed more or less early in life, suggesting a
role of modifier genes. The role of CYP1B1 alterations in classic primary
congenital glaucoma is well known, as is the role of PITX2, FOXC1, PAX6 and LOXC1
alterations in secondary congenital glaucoma due to iridogoniodysgenesis, and of 
MYOC alterations in the genesis of chronic glaucoma in adulthood. An outbred
family carrying CYP1B1 mutations in the compound heterozygous state includes two 
sibs with primary congenital glaucoma and two others who developed chronic
glaucoma in adulthood.


PMID: 24672985  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Clin Ophthalmol. 2012;6:2023-31. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S37145. Epub 2012 Dec 5.

Economic burden of glaucoma in Rivers State, Nigeria.

Adio AO(1), Onua AA.

Author information: 
(1)University Of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital, Rivers State, Nigeria.

BACKGROUND: Primary open angle glaucoma is reported to blind 150,000 people in
the Nigerian population and over 7000 in Rivers State, and requires constant
follow-up. Compliance is a challenge, given that most inhabitants live below the 
poverty line. This study was performed to determine how Nigerian patients are
affected economically by the disease.
METHODS: Consecutive adult patients attending the eye clinic of the University of
Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital, Rivers State, Nigeria, with a diagnosis of
primary open angle glaucoma and on outpatient antiglaucoma treatment in the first
6 months of 2006, were recruited for the study. The lowest paid government worker
was on USD50 (N7500.00) per month and the gross domestic product per capita was
USD1150 for the period under review.
RESULTS: We enrolled 120 consecutive patients of mean age 52.7 ± 10.4 years, with
a male to female ratio of 2:3. The most common occupations were in the civil
service (n = 56, 46.7%). All participants were on topical antiglaucoma treatment.
The average cost of medical antiglaucoma medication was N6000 (USD40) per month. 
Computed to include indirect costs, including medical laboratory tests,
transportation, and care by patient escorts, an average sum of USD105.4 (N15,810)
was spent by each patient per month. Most of the patients (73.3%) were
responsible for their own treatment costs. No patient accepted the cheaper option
of surgery (USD275.4, N41,310). Eighty of the patients (66.7%) visited our eye
clinic monthly. Direct and indirect loss to the economy was USD3,064587 per annum
from those already blind. This was in addition to the USD 4.1 million being spent
yearly on medical treatment by those who were visually impaired by glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: Middle-income earners spent over 50% of their monthly income and
low-income earners spend all their monthly earnings on treatment for glaucoma.
This situation often resulted in noncompliance with treatment and hospital
follow-up visits. To reduce the economic burden of glaucoma, trabeculectomy
performed by experienced surgeons should be offered as first-line treatment for
glaucoma in this country, rather than medical therapy.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S37145 
PMCID: PMC3526906
PMID: 23271881  [PubMed]


229. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2012 Jul-Aug;75(4):243-6.

Risk factors for blindness in patients with open-angle glaucoma followed-up for
at least 15 years.

Paula JS(1), Furtado JM, Santos AS, Coelho Rde M, Rocha EM, Rodrigues Mde L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology, and Head and Neck Surgery,
School of Medicine of Ribeirão Preto FMRP - Universidade de São Paulo - Ribeirão 
Preto (SP), Brazil.

PURPOSE: To determine the proportion of blindness and investigate the
relationships between risk factors based on clinical characteristics and
development of blindness in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)
treated for at least 15 years.
METHODS: A retrospective observational chart review was performed with 403
patients referred to a tertiary level hospital, each with a diagnosis of primary 
open-angle glaucoma, treated for at least 15 years. Blindness attributable to
glaucoma was defined based on visual acuity and/or visual field tests. Variables 
considered to be possible risk factors for blindness were evaluated using odds
ratio (OR), confidence interval (95% CI), and univariate and multivariate
analyses.
RESULTS: Thirty-one patients became blind [13/53 (24.5%) - unilaterally and 18/53
(34%) - bilaterally] during the follow-up period of treatment (19.5 ± 4.6 years, 
range 15-31 years). Multivariate statistics with regression analysis revealed
that persistency on initial therapy ≤6 months was significantly associated with
blindness, both unilateral (OR: 8.4; 95% CI: 1.3-56.4) and bilateral (OR: 7.2;
95% CI: 1.3-39.6). Other potential factors such as race, age, gender or number of
medications were not associated with blindness.
CONCLUSION: Blindness from primary open-angle glaucoma was not uncommon in this
population of treated patients after the long follow-up period proposed.
Persistence rates with the first therapy, as measured by a medical decision to
change, were low. Persistence ≤6 months was statistically associated with the
development of unilateral and bilateral blindness from glaucoma.


PMID: 23258653  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Optom Vis Sci. 2013 Jan;90(1):84-93. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e318278fc15.

Clinicopathologic correlation of disc and peripapillary region using SD-OCT.

Sigler EJ(1), Mascarenhas KG, Tsai JC, Loewen NA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Vitreoretinal Surgery, Charles Retina Institute, Memphis,
Tennessee, USA.

PURPOSE: To describe a technique for evaluating peripapillary and optic nerve
head (ONH) anatomy using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT)
raster scanning in humans and compare quantifiable parameters between diagnosis
categories.
METHODS: Ninety-five eyes of 51 consecutive patients were evaluated in this
retrospective cross-sectional pilot study. Cirrus 5-line raster SD-OCTs with a
resolution of 5 to 15 μm obtained through the ONH were included. A single
observer manually measured neural canal opening (NCO), prelaminar canal depth
(PLCD), peripapillary choroidal thickness (PPCT), and canal nerve fiber layer
(CNFL) in normals, ocular hypertension, primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG),
low-pressure glaucoma (LPG), secondary glaucoma, and early atrophic age-related
macular degeneration. Clinical information, including central corneal thickness
(CCT), was obtained via medical record review. Mean anatomical values within
diagnosis categories were compared using one-way analysis of variance and
multivariate analysis. Bivariate analysis was used to investigate relationships
between continuous variables, and significant (p < 0.05) relationships were
incorporated into the final statistical model.
RESULTS: Horizontal NCO was significantly greater in eyes with LPG than that in
normals (p = 0.021). The PPCT was thinner in age-related macular degeneration (p 
= 0.001) and glaucoma (p = 0.004) compared with that in controls (normals). Mean 
CNFL was thinner in POAG (p < 0.001) and LPG (p = 0.053) compared with that in
normals. Vertical NCO was inversely correlated to CCT (p = 0.013). Multivariate
analysis indicated a positive correlation between PLCD and PPCT (p = 0.008) and
an inverse correlation between CNFL and PLCD (p < 0.001). Controlling for PPCT,
PLCD and CCT were inversely correlated (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The SD-OCT raster scanning may be used to quantify ONH anatomy in
humans. The NCO differences between POAG and LPG may indicate a distinct
structural vulnerability in LPG. In addition, CNFL, PPCT, and PLCD may be
important parameters to consider in glaucoma. The PLCD correlates with PPCT and
should be considered in new models of glaucoma pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e318278fc15 
PMCID: PMC3775484
PMID: 23232801  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Glaucoma. 2014 Apr-May;23(4):246-53. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318279b3e2.

Open-angle glaucoma in Filipino and white Americans: a comparative study.

Sáles CS(1), Lee RY, Agadzi AK, Hee MR, Singh K, Lin SC.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco †Department of Ophthalmology, Byers Eye Institute, Stanford University,
Palo Alto ‡Redwood Eye Center, Vallejo §Pacific Eye Specialists, Daly City, CA.

BACKGROUND: To compare the frequency of open-angle glaucoma (OAG) subtypes
between Filipino and white Americans in a general ophthalmology clinic
population.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this retrospective cross-sectional epidemiologic study
with prospective sampling, medical charts of 1113 patients aged 40 years or older
(513 Filipinos, 600 whites) seen in 2008 were randomly sampled from 2 private
comprehensive ophthalmology clinics. Glaucoma was diagnosed based on optic nerve 
appearance, visual field defects, and other ocular findings using the
International Society of Geographical and Epidemiological Ophthalmology (ISGEO)
scheme. The normal-tension subtype of OAG [normal-tension glaucoma (NTG)] was
defined by intraocular pressure ≤21 mm Hg as determined by review of medical
records.
RESULTS: NTG comprised a greater proportion of all glaucomatous disease in
Filipino subjects [Filipino (F) vs. white (W): 46.7% vs. 26.8%; P=0.02].
Filipinos were more commonly diagnosed with OAG and NTG than whites (F vs. W:
OAG, 11.9% vs. 8.2%; NTG, 6.8% vs. 2.5%; P=0.04, 0.001, respectively). There was 
no significant difference in central corneal thickness between Filipino and white
subjects with NTG (P=0.66).
CONCLUSIONS: Both OAG and NTG may be more common in Filipino Americans than in
white Americans with the propensity for NTG being particularly high in the former
relative to the latter group.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318279b3e2 
PMID: 23221903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Curr Opin Pharmacol. 2013 Feb;13(1):98-107. doi: 10.1016/j.coph.2012.10.007. Epub
2012 Nov 8.

Evaluation of presumptive biomarkers of oxidative stress, immune response and
apoptosis in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Pinazo-Durán MD(1), Zanón-Moreno V, García-Medina JJ, Gallego-Pinazo R.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Research Unit Santiago Grisolia, Valencia, Spain. pinazo_mar@gva.es

There is growing interest on the correlation among oxidative stress,
inflammation, apoptosis and primary open-angle glaucoma initiation and
progression. Reactive oxygen species are formed in the eyes following a wide
variety of stressors, and are largely implicated in glaucoma pathogenesis.
Immune-inflammatory response mediators have recently become a target of
ophthalmologic concern, including glaucoma. Much attention has been derived to
the role of specific pro and anti-apoptotic molecules in glaucoma. This article
reviews the early evidence suggesting that reactive oxygen species, immune
inflammatory response mediators, and apoptogenic molecules are engaged in
glaucoma disease. Moreover, further research concerning the functions, effectors 
and signaling pathways of the above molecules and their interactions, may lead to
specifically develop targeted screening tools based on presumptive biomarkers and
surrogate endpoints against primary open-angle glaucoma progression and
blindness.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coph.2012.10.007 
PMID: 23142105  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Gene. 2013 Jan 10;512(2):179-84. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2012.10.067. Epub 2012 Nov
1.

Association between MTHFR C677T polymorphism and primary open-angle glaucoma: a
meta-analysis.

Huo Y(1), Zou H, Lang M, Ji SX, Yin XL, Zheng Z, Liu W, Chen CL, Yuan RD, Ye J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Institute of Surgery Research, Daping Hospital,
Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.

Epidemiological studies have evaluated the association between
methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T polymorphism and primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) risk. However, the results remain conflicting. The aim
of this study was to investigate the association between MTHFRC677T polymorphism 
and POAG risk. All genetic association studies on MTHFR C677T polymorphism and
POAG were systematically searched by the electronic databases PubMed, Embase and 
Web of Science. Study selection, data abstraction and study quality evaluation
were conducted in duplicate independently. The strength of association between
MTHFR C677T polymorphism and POAG was measured by odds ratios (ORs) and 95%
confidence intervals (CIs). Publication bias was tested by Begg's funnel plot and
Egger's regression test. A total of 10 studies including 1224 cases and 1105
controls were included in our final meta-analysis. There was no evidence of
significant association of the overall population (for allelic model: OR=1.17,
95% CI=0.94-1.46; for additive model: OR=1.15, 95% CI=0.85-1.57; for dominant
model: OR=1.19, 95% CI=0.92-1.55 and for recessive model: OR=1.11, 95%
CI=0.83-1.49). Significant associations were found between MTHFR C677T
polymorphisms and POAG in allelic model (OR=1.39, 95% CI=1.05-1.83) and additive 
model (OR=1.88, 95% CI=1.04-3.43) for population-based (PB) subgroup. This
meta-analysis suggested that there were significant associations between MTHFR
C677T polymorphism and POAG in allelic model and additive model for PB subgroup
which indicated that the T allele or TT genotype might increase the risk of POAG,
whereas no evidence of significant association was shown of the overall studied
population. However, this conclusion should be interpreted cautiously. More large
sample-size and multi-ethnicity studies with well-defined POAG patients and
well-study design are needed in the future study.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2012.10.067 
PMID: 23123730  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Clin Ophthalmol. 2012;6:1699-707. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S32933. Epub 2012 Oct 23.

Current primary open-angle glaucoma treatments and future directions.

Beidoe G(1), Mousa SA.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Institute at Albany College of Pharmacy and Health
Sciences, Rensselaer, NY, USA.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause of blindness with no known 
cure. Management of the disease focuses on lowering intraocular pressure (IOP)
with current classes of drugs like prostaglandin analogs, beta-blockers,
alpha-agonists, and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. These treatments have not
helped all patients. Some patients continue to experience deterioration in the
optic nerve even though their IOPs are within the normal range. New views have
surfaced about other pathophysiological processes (such as oxidative stress,
vascular dysfunction, and retinal cell apoptosis) being involved in POAG
progression, and adjunctive treatments with drugs like memantine, bis(7)-tacrine,
nimodipine, and mirtogenol are advocated. This review examines the current and
proposed treatments for POAG. Some of the proposed drugs (bis(7)-tacrine,
nimodipine, vitamin E, and others) have shown good promise, mostly as monotherapy
in various clinical trials. It is recommended that both the current and proposed 
drugs be put through further robust trials in concurrent administration and
evaluated.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S32933 
PMCID: PMC3484725
PMID: 23118520  [PubMed]


235. Clin Ter. 2012;163(5):e269-77.

Pneumotrabeculoplasty as treatment for primary open angle glaucoma: critical
review of the literature.

Librando A(1), Migliorini R, Pacella F, Turchetti P, Cerutti F, Mazzeo G, Mazzeo 
F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
aloisa.librando@uniroma1.it

PURPOSE: To evaluate with criticism the available evidence shown in the
literature about the efficacy of pneumotrabeculoplasty (PNT) as a treatment for
primary open angle glaucoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: PNT is a recent non-surgical and noninvasive technique to 
safely reduce the intraocular pressure (IOP) in eyes suffering from ocular
hypertension or primary open angle glaucoma. The technique consists in the
application on the ocular surface of a disposable suction ring that induces a
temporary trabecular meshwork stretching, increasing outflow of aqueous humor in 
the Schlemm's canal. In our study, we compared the results on the efficacy and
safety of this treatment published to date in the literature.
RESULTS: During follow-up, Authors have observed significant reductions in IOP in
about 70% of treated eyes. The first treatment consists in 3 applications at day 
0, 7 and 90, repeatable every 90 days. Immediately after suction ring application
there is a significant elevation of IOP, however, of short duration and without
demonstrable visual field worsening. Side effects observed are of little clinical
significance and spontaneously resolving in a short time.
CONCLUSIONS: The PNT is a safe and effective technique to reduce IOP in patients 
with ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma. It is repeatable, but can not
replace drug treatment in patients already receiving topical therapy for
glaucoma; however, it has proven effectiveness in maintaining an IOP target over 
time if accompanied with only a single topical drug, favoring a reduction of
antiglaucoma drugs in polytherapy and increasing the compliance with treatment.


PMID: 23099973  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2012 Oct;109(40):659-64. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2012.0659. Epub 
2012 Oct 5.

Current status of epibulbar anti-glaucoma drainage devices in glaucoma surgery.

Thieme H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Medical Center, Johannes Gutenberg
University Mainz, Germany. hagen.thieme@med.ovgu.de

BACKGROUND: The term "glaucoma" covers a heterogeneous group of progressive optic
neuropathies that are accompanied by characteristic visual-field defects. Primary
open-angle glaucoma, the most common type, progresses insidiously and causes
blindness if untreated. All current forms of treatment aim at lowering the
intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients whose IOP is elevated. The implantation of
anti-glaucoma drainage systems is one of the available options for surgical
treatment.
METHODS: This review is based on pertinent literature retrieved by a selective
search, including glaucoma treatment guidelines from Germany and abroad.
RESULTS: A paradigm shift is currently underway regarding the indications for the
implantation of anti-glaucoma drainage systems. Trabeculectomy (a "fistulating"
operation in which the aqueous humor is led out of the eye under the conjunctiva)
is still considered the surgical gold standard, but drainage systems have been
implanted with increasing frequency in recent years. Studies have shown that
these systems are more likely to be beneficial the earlier they are implanted in 
the course of the patient's disease. Five-year follow-up data from the
randomized, multicenter Tube Versus Trabeculectomy (TVT) study have now revealed 
that anti-glaucoma drainage systems are equivalent to trabeculectomy with respect
to long-term IOP reduction, complication rates, and absolute and relative
clinical success rates.
CONCLUSION: Glaucoma is a major clinical and socio-economic problem whose
surgical treatment increasingly involves the implantation of anti-glaucoma
drainage systems.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2012.0659 
PMCID: PMC3476613
PMID: 23094002  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Ann Pharmacother. 2012 Nov;46(11):1506-10. doi: 10.1345/aph.1R229. Epub 2012 Oct 
23.

Tafluprost: the first preservative-free prostaglandin to treat open-angle
glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Swymer C(1), Neville MW.

Author information: 
(1)Putnam General Hospital, Eatonton, GA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, clinical trial data,
efficacy data, and adverse effect incidence of tafluprost.
DATA SOURCES: A literature search was completed using PubMed, Web of Science, and
Google Scholar. Tafluprost was the primary search term. Articles published
between January 2008 and April 2012 were included in this review. Additional
limits placed on the searches were "human" and "English." Citations in which
tafluprost appeared in the title were 36, 29, and more than 300 in PubMed, Web of
Science, and Google Scholar, respectively.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Three clinical trials were included in this 
review. One trial enrolled more than 500 subjects in a randomized fashion.
Another also enrolled more than 500 subjects, although the study design was not
randomized. The third trial evaluated the effects of tafluprost on subjects who
had recently discontinued use of latanoprost, another prostaglandin that is
approved to treat glaucoma and ocular hypertension. The duration of all 3 trials 
was 12 weeks.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Tafluprost 0.0015% is the first topical prostaglandin approved by
the Food and Drug Administration for treatment of open-angle glaucoma and ocular 
hypertension that does not contain the widely used preservative, benzalkonium
chloride (BAK). Although some controversy surrounds the long-term safety of
exposure to BAK, clinical trial data are inconclusive. Tafluprost, like other
prostaglandin analogues, exerts its effects on prostaglandin F receptors to
reduce intraocular pressure (IOP). Results from 1 trial demonstrated significant 
reductions in IOP when monotherapy was switched to tafluprost monotherapy.
Reductions in IOP with tafluprost use were compared with those seen with use of
timolol and latanoprost in 2 trials, and noninferiority was observed. Significant
reductions in tear osmolarity were noted in subjects who changed from
latanoprost, another prostaglandin analogue, to tafluprost therapy. Conjunctival 
hyperemia is the most common adverse effect seen in patients receiving drugs from
this class. Many have also reported stinging, ocular pruritus, increased
darkening or growth of eyelashes, and darkening of eyelids, as well as
irreversible brown pigmentation of the iris.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical trial data suggest that tafluprost is as efficacious as
other agents used in the management of ocular hypertension and glaucoma. Its use 
may be especially advantageous in people with allergies, sensitivities to
preservatives, or dry or sensitive eyes.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1R229 
PMID: 23092867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Acta Ophthalmol. 2013 Aug;91(5):406-12. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02492.x.
Epub 2012 Oct 16.

Rates of visual field progression in clinical glaucoma care.

Heijl A(1), Buchholz P, Norrgren G, Bengtsson B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Ophthalmology, Skåne University
Hospital, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden. anders.heijl@med.lu.se

PURPOSE: To investigate rates of visual field progression and factors associated 
with progression rate in open-angle glaucoma in clinical glaucoma care.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective chart review of all patients with manifest 
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEXG) followed
≥ 5 years with ≥5 SITA Standard fields. Exclusion criteria were minimal.
Demographics, intraocular pressure values (IOP), treatment and treatment changes,
and visual field (VF) data were recorded. VF progression rates were calculated as
slopes of mean deviation (MD) over time.
RESULTS: Five hundred and eighty-three patients were eligible. Three hundred and 
sixty-seven (62%) had POAG and 221 (38%) PEXG. Median MD at study start was -10.0
dB. Mean follow-up time was 7.8 years (SD ± 1.2); mean number of VF tests was 8.9
(SD ± 2.8). Progression rates varied very much among patients with a mean of
-0.80 dB/year (SD ± 0.82; median rate, -0.62), and 5.6% of patients progressed at
rates worse than -2.5 dB per year A negative slope of MD values was observed in
89% of patients. Mean IOP of all visits decreased over the study period from
20.15 to 18.10 mmHg. Higher age and mean IOP, and more intensive treatment were
associated with more rapid progression, while PEXG and IOP variation were not, if
treatment intensity was taken into account.
CONCLUSION: Rates of visual field progression in manifest glaucoma with field
loss in ordinary clinical care were highly variable. Progression rates rapid
enough to influence quality of life were common.

© 2012 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2012 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2012.02492.x 
PMCID: PMC3798127
PMID: 23066646  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


239. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e46632. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046632. Epub 2012 Sep 28.

Myocilin polymorphisms and primary open-angle glaucoma: a systematic review and
meta-analysis.

Cheng JW(1), Cheng SW, Ma XY, Cai JP, Li Y, Lu GC, Wei RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital, Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in the world.
Recent evidence indicates a role for genetic susceptibility to primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG). The relation between myocilin polymorphisms and POAG
susceptibility has been studied in different populations.
METHODS: A meta-analysis of 32 published genetic association case-control
studies, which examined the relation between POAG and the R46X, R76K, Y347Y,
T353I, and Q368X polymorphisms of the myocilin gene, was carried out.
RESULTS: In meta-analysis, significant associations were observed between POAG
risk and two myocilin polymorphisms with summarized odds ratio of 4.68 (95%CI,
2.02-10.85) for Q368X and 2.17 (95% CI, 1.32-3.57) for T353I. Both Q368X and
T353I were significantly associated with high-tension glaucoma, with summarized
odds ratio of 4.26 (1.69, 10.73) and 2.26 (1.37-3.72). In Westerners, significant
association was observed for Q368X mutation (odds ratio, 5.17; 95% CI,
2.16-12.40). However, in Asians it was for T353I (odds ratio, 2.17; 95% CI,
1.32-3.57).
CONCLUSIONS: There is strong evidence that myocilin polymorphisms are associated 
with POAG susceptibility, and the prevalence of myocilin mutations might be
ethnicity-dependent in Caucasians for Q368X and in Asians for T353I.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046632 
PMCID: PMC3460926
PMID: 23029558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


240. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e45079. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045079. Epub 2012 Sep 13.

Intraocular pressure-lowering effects of commonly used fixed-combination drugs
with timolol: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Cheng JW(1), Cheng SW, Gao LD, Lu GC, Wei RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital, Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: The first goal of medical therapy in glaucoma is to reduce
intraocular pressure (IOP), and the fixed-combination medications are needed to
achieve sufficiently low target IOP. The aim of this systematic review and
meta-analysis is to evaluate IOP-lowering effect of the commonly used
fixed-combination drugs containing 0.5% timolol.
METHODS: Pertinent publications were identified through systematic searches. Over
85% of the patients had to be diagnosed with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)
or ocular hypertension (OHT). Forty-one randomized clinical trials were included 
in the meta-analysis. The main efficacy measures were the absolute and relative
values of mean diurnal IOP reduction, and the highest and lowest IOP reductions
on the diurnal IOP curve. The pooled 1- to 3-month IOP-lowering effects after a
medicine-free washout period was calculated by performing meta-analysis using the
random effects model, and relative treatment effects among different fixed
combinations were assessed using a mixed-effects meta-regression model.
RESULTS: The relative reductions for mean diurnal IOP were 34.9% for
travoprost/timolol, 34.3% for bimatoprost/timolol, 33.9% for latanoprost/timolol,
32.7% for brinzolamide/timolol, 29.9% for dorzolamide/timolol, and 28.1% for
brimonidine/timolol. For the highest IOP decrease, relative reductions ranged
from 31.3% for dorzolamide/timolol to 35.5% for travoprost/timolol; for the
lowest IOP decrease, those varied from 25.9% for dorzolamide/timolol to 33.1% for
bimatoprost/timolol. Both latanoprost/timolol and travoprost/timolol were more
effective in lowering mean diurnal IOP than brimonidine/timolol (WMD: 5.9 and
7.0) and dorzolamide/timolol (WMD: 3.8 and 3.3).
CONCLUSIONS: All six commonly used fixed-combination drugs containing timolol can
effectively lower IOP in patients with POAG and OHT, and both latanoprost/timolol
and travoprost/timolol might achieve better IOP-lowering effects among the six
fixed-combination agents.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045079 
PMCID: PMC3441590
PMID: 23028770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 Apr;41(3):282-92. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02885.x. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

Management algorithms for primary angle closure disease.

Thomas R(1), Walland MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Queensland Eye Institute, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 May-Jun;42(4):401-2.
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 May-Jun;42(4):400-1.

In contrast to primary open angle glaucoma, preventive interventions in primary
angle closure disease (PACD) can sometimes be definitive. Data from randomized,
controlled trials - and where this is not available - principles grounded in
known biology, biological plausibility, logic, preferred practice and personal
experience have been synthesized to develop explicit clinical algorithms for
management of the spectrum of PACD. The mainstay of first-line intervention is
usually a laser iridotomy: a commonly necessary but sometimes insufficient
manoeuvre in PACD. The crucial stepwise considerations after iridotomy are:
whether the angle is open or closed; whether the IOP can be medically controlled;
the extent of PAS, and the presence of visually significant cataract. Indication 
for subsequent interventions--which may include iridoplasty, cataract surgery,
trabeculectomy or phacotrabeulectomy--are herein based on an arbitrary threshold 
(180 degrees) for angle opening and extent of PAS following initial treatment.

© 2012 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2012 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02885.x 
PMID: 23009061  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012 Sep 12;(9):CD004399. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD004399.pub3.

Medical versus surgical interventions for open angle glaucoma.

Burr J(1), Azuara-Blanco A, Avenell A, Tuulonen A.

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, Medical and Biological Sciences Building, University of St
Andrews, Fife, UK. jmb28@st-andrews.ac.uk.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2005;(2):CD004399.

BACKGROUND: Open angle glaucoma (OAG) is a common cause of blindness.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of medication compared with initial surgery in 
adults with OAG.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision 
Group Trials Register) (The Cochrane Library 2012, Issue 7), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid
MEDLINE In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid
OLDMEDLINE (January 1946 to August 2012), EMBASE (January 1980 to August 2012),
Latin American and Caribbean Literature on Health Sciences (LILACS) (January 1982
to August 2012), Biosciences Information Service (BIOSIS) (January 1969 to August
2012), Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) (January
1937 to August 2012), OpenGrey (System for Information on Grey Literature in
Europe) (www.opengrey.eu/), Zetoc, the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT)
(www.controlled-trials.com) and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry
Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or
language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the
electronic databases on 1 August 2012. The National Research Register (NRR) was
last searched in 2007 after which the database was archived. We also checked the 
reference lists of articles and contacted researchers in the field.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing
medications with surgery in adults with OAG.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently assessed trial quality
and extracted data. We contacted study authors for missing information.
MAIN RESULTS: Four trials involving 888 participants with previously untreated
OAG were included. Surgery was Scheie's procedure in one trial and trabeculectomy
in three trials. In three trials, primary medication was usually pilocarpine, in 
one trial it was a beta-blocker.The most recent trial included participants with 
on average mild OAG. At five years, the risk of progressive visual field loss,
based on a three unit change of a composite visual field score, was not
significantly different according to initial medication or initial trabeculectomy
(odds ratio (OR) 0.74, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.54 to 1.01). In an analysis
based on mean difference (MD) as a single index of visual field loss, the between
treatment group difference in MD was -0.20 decibel (dB) (95% CI -1.31 to 0.91).
For a subgroup with more severe glaucoma (MD -10 dB), findings from an
exploratory analysis suggest that initial trabeculectomy was associated with
marginally less visual field loss at five years than initial medication, (mean
difference 0.74 dB (95% CI -0.00 to 1.48). Initial trabeculectomy was associated 
with lower average intraocular pressure (IOP) (mean difference 2.20 mmHg (95% CI 
1.63 to 2.77) but more eye symptoms than medication (P = 0.0053). Beyond five
years, visual acuity did not differ according to initial treatment (OR 1.48, 95% 
CI 0.58 to 3.81).From three trials in more severe OAG, there is some evidence
that medication was associated with more progressive visual field loss and 3 to 8
mmHg less IOP lowering than surgery. In the longer-term (two trials) the risk of 
failure of the randomised treatment was greater with medication than
trabeculectomy (OR 3.90, 95% CI 1.60 to 9.53; hazard ratio (HR) 7.27, 95% CI 2.23
to 25.71). Medications and surgery have evolved since these trials were
undertaken.In three trials the risk of developing cataract was higher with
trabeculectomy (OR 2.69, 95% CI 1.64 to 4.42). Evidence from one trial suggests
that, beyond five years, the risk of needing cataract surgery did not differ
according to initial treatment policy (OR 0.63, 95% CI 0.15 to
2.62).Methodological weaknesses were identified in all the trials.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Primary surgery lowers IOP more than primary medication but
is associated with more eye discomfort. One trial suggests that visual field
restriction at five years is not significantly different whether initial
treatment is medication or trabeculectomy. There is some evidence from two small 
trials in more severe OAG, that initial medication (pilocarpine, now rarely used 
as first line medication) is associated with more glaucoma progression than
surgery. Beyond five years, there is no evidence of a difference in the need for 
cataract surgery according to initial treatment.The clinical and
cost-effectiveness of contemporary medication (prostaglandin analogues,
alpha2-agonists and topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors) compared with primary 
surgery is not known.Further RCTs of current medical treatments compared with
surgery are required, particularly for people with severe glaucoma and in black
ethnic groups. Outcomes should include those reported by patients. Economic
evaluations are required to inform treatment policy.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004399.pub3 
PMID: 22972069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


243. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2012 Sep-Dec;6(3):99-103. doi:
10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1114. Epub 2012 Oct 16.

Initial Treatment: Prostaglandin Analog or Selective Laser Trabeculoplasty.

Clement CI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, Sydney Eye Hospital, NSW, Australia; Central Clinical School
Faculty of Medicine, The University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Prostaglandin analogs (PGA) have been the initial treatment of choice in many
patients with glaucoma. However, there is an increasing awareness that non
adherence and disruption of the ocular surface may limit PGA utility and
tolerability respectively in some patients. In an eye with an open iridocorneal
angle, these issues can potentially be addressed with the use of laser
trabeculoplasty (LT). This therapy can achieve long-term intraocular pressure
reduction following 1 to 2 treatment sessions without the ongoing need to apply
medication (and preservatives) to the ocular surface. Whether PGAs or LT should
be used in a given individual will also be influenced by other important factors 
including efficacy, response rate, tolerability, complications, cost and
accessibility. This review examines these issues in relation to the initiation of
primary therapy. How to cite this article: Clement CI. Initial Treatment:
Prostaglandin Analog of Selective Laser Trabeculoplasty. J Current Glau Prac
2012;6(3):99-103.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10008-1114 
PMCID: PMC4741118
PMID: 26997763  [PubMed]


244. J Glaucoma. 2014 Jan;23(1):56-60. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318264cd68.

Ocular surface disease exacerbated glaucoma: optimizing the ocular surface
improves intraocular pressure control.

Batra R(1), Tailor R, Mohamed S.

Author information: 
(1)University Hospitals Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

PURPOSE: To describe a series of 4 patients with inadequately controlled primary 
open angle glaucoma and ocular surface disease (OSD) in whom a combination
approach was used to manage the OSD resulting in improved intraocular pressure
(IOP) control.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of the clinical notes of 4 patients 
referred to a tertiary surgical glaucoma service was performed. At the initial
visit, measures to control the OSD were employed in all patients; twice-daily lid
hygiene measures, a 3-month course of 50 mg daily oral doxycycline, topical
carmellose sodium (celluvisc) 0.5% 4 to 6 times daily, and preservative-free
equivalents of topical antiglaucoma medications as deemed appropriate, depending 
on the perceived severity of the OSD.
RESULTS: Patients were reviewed for a maximum of 24 months after intervention. In
all patients treatment resulted in a marked symptomatic and clinical improvement 
in the ocular surface with a reduction in hyperemia, meibomian gland dysfunction 
and superficial keratopathy. A reduction in the IOP also occurred in all
patients, obviating the need for glaucoma drainage surgery during the study
period.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with severe OSD often have glaucoma that is refractive to
medical therapy. Furthermore, the surgical success of glaucoma filtering surgery 
is compromised in patients with scarring and inflammation of the conjunctiva. The
term we postulate is "OSD exacerbated glaucoma." This is the first study to
suggest that the use of a combination approach comprising medical treatment to
manage the OSD in patients with primary open angle glaucoma may lead to an
improvement in the IOP control and the management of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318264cd68 
PMID: 22828007  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Cell Cycle. 2012 Aug 1;11(15):2808-18. doi: 10.4161/cc.20946. Epub 2012 Aug 1.

Toward an integrative view of Optineurin functions.

Kachaner D(1), Génin P, Laplantine E, Weil R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Unité de Signalisation Moléculaire et Activation Cellulaire,
CNRS URA 2582, Paris, France.

This review highlights recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms of 
Optineurin (Optn) action and its implication in diseases. Optn has emerged as a
key player regulating various physiological processes, including membrane
trafficking, protein secretion, cell division and host defense against pathogens.
Furthermore, there is growing evidence for an association of Optn mutations with 
human diseases such as primary open-angle glaucoma, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
and Paget's disease of bone. Optn functions depend on its precise subcellular
localization and its interaction with other proteins. Here, we review the
mechanisms that allow Optn to ensure a timely and spatially coordinated
integration of different physiological processes and discuss how their
deregulation may lead to different pathologies.

DOI: 10.4161/cc.20946 
PMID: 22801549  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2012 Dec;50(12):2107-19.

Biomarkers in primary open angle glaucoma.

Kokotas H(1), Kroupis C, Chiras D, Grigoriadou M, Lamnissou K, Petersen MB,
Kitsos G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Institute of Child Health , Aghia Sophia Children's
Hospital, Athens, Greece. hkokotas@yahoo.gr

Glaucoma, a leading cause of blindness worldwide, is currently defined as a
disturbance of the structural or functional integrity of the optic nerve that
causes characteristic atrophic changes in the optic nerve, which may lead to
specific visual field defects over time. This disturbance usually can be arrested
or diminished by adequate lowering of intraocular pressure (IOP). Glaucoma can be
divided roughly into two main categories, ‘ open angle ’ and ‘ closed angle ’
glaucoma.Open angle, chronic glaucoma tends to progress at a slower rate and
patients may not notice loss of vision until the disease has progressed
significantly. Primary open angle glaucoma(POAG) is described distinctly as a
multifactorial optic neuropathy that is chronic and progressive with a
characteristic acquired loss of optic nerve fibers. Such loss develops in the
presence of open anterior chamber angles, characteristic visual field
abnormalities, and IOP that is too high for the healthy eye. It manifests by
cupping and atrophy of the optic disc, in the absence of other known causes of
glaucomatous disease. Several biological markers have been implicated with the
disease. The purpose of this study was to summarize the current knowledge
regarding the non-genetic molecular markers which have been predicted to have an 
association with POAG but have not yet been validated.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2012-0048 
PMID: 22745021  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Expert Rev Ophthalmol. 2012 Apr;7(2):161-175.

Secondary neuroprotective effects of hypotensive drugs and potential mechanisms
of action.

Shih GC(1), Calkins DJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Vanderbilt Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences,
Vanderbilt University, School of Medicine, 11435 MRB IV, 2215B Garland Avenue,
Nashville, TN 37232, USA.

Primary open-angle glaucoma, a long-term degenerative ocular neuropathy, remains 
a significant cause of vision impairment worldwide. While many risk factors have 
been correlated with increased risk for primary open-angle glaucoma, intraocular 
pressure (IOP) remains the only modifiable risk factor and primary therapeutic
target. Pharmacologic therapies are administered topically; these include
α(2)-agonists, β-antagonists, prostaglandin analogs and carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors. Some of these topical medications exhibit secondary neuroprotective
effects independent of their effect on IOP. This review covers the possible
mechanisms of neuroprotection stimulated by drugs currently marketed for the
lowering of IOP, based on known literature. While the neuroprotective properties 
of many glaucoma pharmaceuticals are promising from an experimental standpoint,
key challenges for the development of new clinical practices include unknown
systemic side effects, limited methods of drug delivery to the retina and optic
nerve, and development of extended-release formulations.

DOI: 10.1586/eop.12.13 
PMCID: PMC3379897
PMID: 22737176  [PubMed]


248. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2013 Mar;41(2):135-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02831.x.
Epub 2012 Aug 21.

Trabeculectomy: the limitations for registrar training.

Sun LL(1), Lee GA.

Author information: 
(1)Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital City Eye Centre University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Trainee exposure to glaucoma surgery was analysed and outcomes
compared with those of consultant cases.
DESIGN: Retrospective review was carried out at Princess Alexandra Hospital and
Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital, two major tertiary teaching hospitals in
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred and forty-eight consecutive public patients undergoing 
primary trabeculectomy surgery between 2003 and 2010.
METHODS: The rate of trabeculectomy performed by trainees, the success and
complication rates were examined and compared with those of consultant
ophthalmologists.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Intraocular pressure was divided into two groups of ≤21
mmHg and ≤15 mmHg and visual field progression.
RESULTS: Two hundred and forty-eight primary trabeculectomy cases were performed 
between 2003 and 2010. Trainees carried out 145 cases (59%), making the rate of
trabeculectomy operations 1.1 per trainee per year (16-17 trainees) as compared
with 1.6 per trainee per year from 1996 to 2002 at the same institutions.
Complications rates in the first postoperative week were similar between
consultants and trainees, the most common being wound leak and hyphaema. An
intraocular pressure of ≤15 mmHg without the use of topical medications was
achieved in 25 out of 50 (50%) glaucoma-interest consultant, 24 out of 53 (45.3%)
general consultant and 68 out of 145 (46.9%) trainee cases (P = 0.951). The rate 
of visual field progression was also statistically similar between trainees and
consultants (19.5% and 21.3%), respectively.
CONCLUSION: With increasing trainee numbers, the rate of trabeculectomy surgery
is declining compared with previous years, with less trainee exposure to
trabeculectomy surgery and inability to achieve surgical competency levels.

© 2012 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2012 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02831.x 
PMID: 22713296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Cornea. 2013 Jan;32(1):1-4. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e3182488888.

Descemet membrane endothelial keratoplasty and hybrid techniques for managing
failed penetrating grafts.

Anshu A(1), Price MO, Price FW Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Cornea Research Foundation of America, Indianapolis, IN, USA.

PURPOSE: To report the outcomes of Descemet membrane endothelial keratoplasty
(DMEK) and Descemet membrane automated endothelial keratoplasty (DMAEK) for
failed penetrating keratoplasties (PKs).
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of patients with a failed PK who were managed
with DMEK or DMAEK surgery. Surgical technique, clinical findings, visual
outcomes, and complications were documented and reported.
RESULTS: Six patients (mean age, 62 years; mean follow-up, 10 months) underwent
DMEK (4 patients) or DMAEK (2 patients) under a failed PK. The graft diameter of 
the failed PK was 8 mm in all patients. In 3 patients, a 9-mm donor graft (DMAEK,
2; DMEK, 1) was used, whereas in the remaining patients, an 8-mm donor graft was 
chosen. Descemet membrane was stripped in 3 eyes because of the presence of
Descemetic scarring. Four of the 6 eyes had a triple procedure. Two patients had 
preexisting open-angle glaucoma, whereas 1 patient developed postoperative
steroid-response glaucoma. The median preoperative best-corrected visual acuity
was 20/70, and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months, 20/50, 20/40, and 20/30,
respectively. The median donor endothelial cell density was 2801 cells per square
millimeter, and at 3 and 6 months postoperatively, 1906 and 1880 cells per square
millimeter, respectively. Three of the 4 DMEK eyes had peripheral graft
detachment that attached successfully with 1 air injection. There was 1 primary
failure that was managed with Descemet stripping endothelial keratoplasty.
CONCLUSIONS: DMEK or DMAEK can be considered to treat failed PKs. However, prior 
experience in performing these techniques in virgin eyes is recommended before
use with a failed PK, which can present an additional challenge.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e3182488888 
PMID: 22710497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Health Technol Assess. 2012 Jun;16(29):1-271, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta16290.

Surveillance for ocular hypertension: an evidence synthesis and economic
evaluation.

Burr JM(1), Botello-Pinzon P, Takwoingi Y, Hernández R, Vazquez-Montes M, Elders 
A, Asaoka R, Banister K, van der Schoot J, Fraser C, King A, Lemij H, Sanders R, 
Vernon S, Tuulonen A, Kotecha A, Glasziou P, Garway-Heath D, Crabb D, Vale L,
Azuara-Blanco A, Perera R, Ryan M, Deeks J, Cook J.

Author information: 
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine effective and efficient monitoring criteria for ocular
hypertension [raised intraocular pressure (IOP)] through (i) identification and
validation of glaucoma risk prediction models; and (ii) development of models to 
determine optimal surveillance pathways.
DESIGN: A discrete event simulation economic modelling evaluation. Data from
systematic reviews of risk prediction models and agreement between tonometers,
secondary analyses of existing datasets (to validate identified risk models and
determine optimal monitoring criteria) and public preferences were used to
structure and populate the economic model.
SETTING: Primary and secondary care.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults with ocular hypertension (IOP > 21 mmHg) and the public
(surveillance preferences).
INTERVENTIONS: We compared five pathways: two based on National Institute for
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines with monitoring interval and
treatment depending on initial risk stratification, 'NICE intensive' (4-monthly
to annual monitoring) and 'NICE conservative' (6-monthly to biennial monitoring);
two pathways, differing in location (hospital and community), with monitoring
biennially and treatment initiated for a ≥ 6% 5-year glaucoma risk; and a 'treat 
all' pathway involving treatment with a prostaglandin analogue if IOP > 21 mmHg
and IOP measured annually in the community.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Glaucoma cases detected; tonometer agreement; public
preferences; costs; willingness to pay and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The best available glaucoma risk prediction model estimated the 5-year
risk based on age and ocular predictors (IOP, central corneal thickness, optic
nerve damage and index of visual field status). Taking the average of two IOP
readings, by tonometry, true change was detected at two years. Sizeable
measurement variability was noted between tonometers. There was a general public 
preference for monitoring; good communication and understanding of the process
predicted service value. 'Treat all' was the least costly and 'NICE intensive'
the most costly pathway. Biennial monitoring reduced the number of cases of
glaucoma conversion compared with a 'treat all' pathway and provided more QALYs, 
but the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was considerably more than
£30,000. The 'NICE intensive' pathway also avoided glaucoma conversion, but
NICE-based pathways were either dominated (more costly and less effective) by
biennial hospital monitoring or had a ICERs > £30,000. Results were not sensitive
to the risk threshold for initiating surveillance but were sensitive to the risk 
threshold for initiating treatment, NHS costs and treatment adherence.
LIMITATIONS: Optimal monitoring intervals were based on IOP data. There were
insufficient data to determine the optimal frequency of measurement of the visual
field or optic nerve head for identification of glaucoma. The economic modelling 
took a 20-year time horizon which may be insufficient to capture long-term
benefits. Sensitivity analyses may not fully capture the uncertainty surrounding 
parameter estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: For confirmed ocular hypertension, findings suggest that there is no
clear benefit from intensive monitoring. Consideration of the patient experience 
is important. A cohort study is recommended to provide data to refine the
glaucoma risk prediction model, determine the optimum type and frequency of
serial glaucoma tests and estimate costs and patient preferences for monitoring
and treatment.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
Programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16290 
PMCID: PMC4781499
PMID: 22687263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Sep;96(9):1162-7. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2011-301189.
Epub 2012 May 31.

The prevalence of primary angle closure glaucoma in European derived populations:
a systematic review.

Day AC(1), Baio G, Gazzard G, Bunce C, Azuara-Blanco A, Munoz B, Friedman DS,
Foster PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Epidemiology, UCL Institute of Ophthalmology,
London, UK. alex.day@ucl.ac.uk

AIM: To estimate the prevalence of primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) in
European derived populations.
METHOD: Systematic review and modelling of PACG prevalence data from population
studies. PACG was defined according to the ISGEO definition requiring structural 
and/or functional evidence of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. Prevalence estimates
were applied to the 2010 United Nations projected population figures to estimate 
case numbers.
RESULTS: The prevalence of PACG in those 40 years or more is 0.4% (95% CI 0.3% to
0.5%). Age-specific prevalence values are 0.02% (CI 0.00 to 0.08) for those 40-49
years, 0.60% (0.27 to 1.00) for those 50-59 years, 0.20% (0.06 to 0.42) for those
60-69 years and 0.94% (0.63 to 1.35) for those 70 years and older. Three-quarters
of all cases occur in female subjects (3.25 female to 1 male; CI 1.76 to 5.94).
CONCLUSION: This analysis provides a current evidence-based estimate of PACG
prevalence in European derived populations and suggests there are 130,000 people 
in the UK, 1.60 million people in Europe and 581,000 people in the USA with PACG 
today. Accounting for ageing population structures, cases are predicted to
increase by 19% in the UK, 9% in Europe and 18% in the USA within the next
decade. PACG is more common than previously thought, and all primary glaucoma
cases should be considered to be PACG until the anterior chamber angle is shown
to be open on gonioscopy.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2011-301189 
PMID: 22653314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Am J Ophthalmol. 2012 Sep;154(3):460-465.e7. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.03.015. Epub
2012 May 23.

RAND-like appropriateness methodology consensus for primary open-angle glaucoma
in Latin America.

Lerner SF(1), Singh K, Susanna R Jr, Wilson MR, Lee BL, Maul E; Latin America
Glaucoma Rand Study Group.

Collaborators: Lerner S, Singh K, Susanna R Jr, Wilson M, Grigera D, Schlottmann 
P, Susanna R Jr, Tavares I, Lopes J, Gomez F, Rueda JC, Hartleben C.

Author information: 
(1)Fundacion para el Estudio del Glaucoma and Facultad de Posgrado, Universidad
Favaloro, Buenos Aires, Argentina. fabianlerner@fibertel.com.ar

PURPOSE: To report the results of a Latin American consensus panel regarding the 
diagnosis and management of primary open-angle glaucoma and to compare these
results with those from a similar panel in the United States.
DESIGN: A RAND-like (Research and Development) appropriateness methodology was
used to assess glaucoma practice in Latin America.
METHODS: The 148 polling statements created for the RAND- like analysis in the
United States and 10 additional statements specific to glaucoma care in Latin
America were presented to a panel of Latin American glaucoma experts. Panelists
were polled in private using the RAND- like methodology before and after the
panel meeting.
RESULTS: Consensus agreement or disagreement among Latin American experts was
reached for 51.3% of statements before the meeting and increased to 66.5% in the 
private, anonymous meeting after polling (79.0% agreement, 21.0% disagreement).
Although there was a high degree of concordance (111 of 148 statements; 75%)
between the results of this Latin American panel and the United States panel,
there were some notable exceptions relating to diagnostic and therapeutic
decision making.
CONCLUSIONS: This RAND-like consensus methodology provides a perspective of how
Latin American glaucoma practitioners view many aspects of glaucoma and compares 
these results with those obtained using a similar methodology from practitioners 
in the United States. These findings may be helpful to ophthalmologists providing
glaucoma care in Latin America and in other regions of the world.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.03.015 
PMID: 22626620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Dec;40(9):895-905. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02812.x. Epub 2012 Jul 2.

Is primary open-angle glaucoma part of a generalized sensory neurodegeneration? A
review of the evidence.

O'Hare F(1), Rance G, McKendrick AM, Crowston JG.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
oharef@unimelb.edu.au

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Dec;40(9):838-9.

Open-angle glaucoma is an optic neuropathy that has a multifarious aetiological
profile. Emerging theories suggest that a group of factors induce optic nerve
injury in innately susceptible aging optic nerves. These factors have the
potential to impact on the function of other vulnerable neurons within the
central nervous system of older patients. Although changes within the visual
pathways due to retinal ganglion cell dysfunction and death are well established,
research exploring the behaviour of other sensory systems in individuals with
glaucoma is limited. This review summarizes what is known about these other
non-visual sensory changes, explores whether glaucoma is in fact part of a global
neurodegenerative condition, and suggests areas for future research direction.

© 2012 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2012 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02812.x 
PMID: 22594632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2012 Mar;116(3):298-344; discussion 345-6.

[New insights into the pathogenesis of glaucomatous optic neuropathy and
refinement of the objective assessment of its functional damage].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakamura M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology, Department of Surgery, Kobe University Graduate
School of Medicine, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Japan. manakamu@med.kobe-u.ac.jp

Glaucomatous optic neuropathy is a primary pathological condition responsible for
visual dysfunction due to glaucoma. However, how intraocular pressure and other
risk factors lead to glaucomatous optic neuropathy is not fully understood. Given
that static or kinetic visual field tests for evaluating visual dysfunction in
glaucomatous optic neuropathy are a subjective assessments based on a
psychophysical principle, the development of a tool for objective assessment of
the visual field is needed. In this study, we attempt to elucidate the
pathophysiology of glaucomatous optic neuropathy and to refine a modality for the
objective assessment of the visual dysfunction due to it. Aquaporin (AQP) water
channels are located primarily in the plasma membrane. These proteins form either
a homo- or hetero-tetramer and allow water to cross the plasma membrane
bi-directionally. The transmembrane water movement through AQPs is critically
involved in the maintenance of normal neuronal activity. Among the 13 isoforms
indentified so far, AQP-4 is known to be expressed in the retrobulbar portion of 
the optic nerve. However, the optic nerve head, the primary pathological site of 
glaucomatous optic neuropathy, reportedly does not express AQP-4. We found that
in control rats, astrocytes throughout the optic nerve express AQP-9. The chronic
elevation of intraocular pressure due to cauterization of three episcleral veins 
substantially reduced both gene expression and immunoreactivity of AQP-9, whereas
it did not change the AQP-4 gene or protein expression in the retrobulbar portion
of the optic nerve. These findings are implicated in the chronic elevation of
intraocular pressure in astrocytes. Similar findings were also observed in the
eyes of a monkey with angle-laser-induced ocular hypertension and of a human with
primary open-angle glaucoma. AQP-9 was also expressed in the cell bodies of
retinal ganglion cells in control rats and its expression was significantly
reduced in the eyes of rats with ocular hypertension. Recently, the
astrocyte-to-neuron lactate shuttle hypothesis has been proposed. This hypothesis
suggests that lactate generated by glucose during glycolysis in astrocytes is
used by neurons as an energy substrate. Given that AQP-9 belongs to an
aquaglyceroporin subfamily and allows solutes other than water (e.g., lactate) to
cross the plasma membrane, chronic ocular hypertension may perturb this
physiological passage of lactate. Thus, lactate as the energy substrate may be
unable to be transported from astrocytes to retinal ganglion cells at the cell
bodies and axons due to the reduction of AQP-9 expression by astrocytes at the
optic nerve head and retinal ganglion cells. The multifocal visual evoked
potential (mfVEP) is an objective visual field test, which enables the recording 
of cortical potential corresponding to 60 local retinal areas simultaneously.
Evidence is accumulating that the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) has been enhanced
by recording mfVEPs from multiple channels at the same time. However, previous
studies evaluated the mfVEPs mostly in Caucasians. It has not yet been proven
whether this strategy is applicable to Japanese people who have a skull frame
that may be different from that of Caucasians. We calculated the relative
position of the calcarine landmark for electrode placement during the mfVEP
recording, from brain MRI images of 200 individuals, which were found to be 1 cm 
lower than those reported in Caucasians with a statistical significance. Then, we
recorded mfVEPs from 110 normal controls using three channels and conducted
receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis of the overlap of SNR
distribution at signal and noise windows. We found that a combination of one
horizontal channel straddling the inion with either one of the two perpendicular 
vertical channels yielded the largest area under the ROC curve (AUC). Next, we
showed that the SNR-AUC exhibited a similar diagnostic performance to, and a
significant correlation with, a total deviation of the Humphrey visual field in
56 eyes with mild to moderate glaucomatous damage, which exhibited a mean
deviation of -15 dB or less, and in 62 control eyes. In contrast, a topographical
agreement in defining abnormal locations based on probability plots between the
Humphrey visual field and mfVEP testing was moderate. The SNR-AUC may be used as 
a global index, analogous to the mean deviation of the Humphrey visual field, to 
quantify diffuse functional loss due to glaucomatous optic neuropathy, in
contrast to the previously proposed cluster analysis of the mfVEP probability
plots, which is a strategy more suitable to diagnosing local sensitivity loss.


PMID: 22568105  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2012 Mar;116(3):269-96; discussion 297.

[Toward a high quality glaucoma care].

[Article in Japanese]

Kashiwagi K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, University of Yamanashi,
Chuo-shi, Yamanashi-ken, Japan. kenjik@yamanashi.ac.jp

The following studies were performed to solve current problems in glaucoma care
and to pursue quality glaucoma care. Using a scanning peripheral anterior chamber
depth analyzer that we developed, we: 1) conducted cross-sectional screening for 
eyes with angle closure; 2) examined longitudinal changes in anterior chamber
depth and occurrence rates of primary angle closure in local senior residents; 3)
investigated the significance of the anterior chamber and the angle of eyes with 
open angle glaucoma; and 4) looked into possible applications of anterior chamber
depth and the angle in routine examinations. We investigated the effects of
retinal glial cells and optic nerve astrocytes on retinal ganglion cell (RGC)
survival and neurite growth using a culture system. We also identified candidate 
genies of retinal glial cells and optic nerve astrocytes affecting RGC survival
and neurite growth using microarray and siRNA systems. SRC, a membrane-associated
60-kDa tyrosine kinase, is reported to be involved in neuron death and neurite
growth. We developed two types of gene-targeted mice in which we modified the
status of SRC phosphorylation. We compared RGC survival and neurite growth by
conducting in vivo and in vitro experiments. Adherence is currently a very
important issue in the field of glaucoma. We developed a nm thick and composed of
21.5 chitosan-sodium alginate pairs. IOP reduction and its duration, as well as
adverse effects, were investigated. In addition, we established and evaluated a
support system for glaucoma care in an effort to promote participation of
glaucoma patients in glaucoma care using information and communication
technology. This system improved the literacy of glaucoma patients as well as
glaucoma medical therapy. At the same time, in order to ably provide glaucoma
care given the increase in the number of glaucoma patients and the shortage of
glaucoma specialists, a tele-medicine system for ophthalmology was developed, in 
which ophthalmologists are able to operate a slit-lamp system from remote areas. 
We compared the accuracy of diagnosis of ocular surface diseases using this
tele-medicine system with that of a conventional slit-lamp system. We anticipate 
that the combination of Internet-based glaucoma support system with the
tele-medicine system for ophthalmology will form a new framework for glaucoma
care for both chronic and acute stage patients.


PMID: 22568104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2012 Mar;116(3):233-67; discussion 268.

[A challenge to primary open-angle glaucoma including normal-pressure. Clinical
problems and their scientific solution].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugiyama K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Science, Kanazawa University Graduate
School of Medical Science, Kanazawa-shi, Ishikawa-ken, Japan.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), including normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), is
reported by the Tajimi Study to afflict 3.9% of the total population, and this
represents about 80% of all total glaucoma cases which, in total, afflict 5.0% of
the population. We tried to analyze the clinical problems relating to POAG by
looking at the pathogenesis, intraocular pressure (IOP), therapy, neuroprotection
and surgery of the disease. To elucidate the pathogenesis of glaucoma
progression, we measured retinal nerve fiber layer defect (RNFLD) angles', and
divided the NTG cases into 2 groups, enlarged RNFLD and stable RNFLD. Disc
hemorrhages were found to be significantly more frequent in the enlarged group
than in the stable group. RNFLD was enlarged in the direction of disc hemorrhage 
in over 80% of the eyes. In the majority of the eyes of the enlarged group, the
enlargement of RNFLD was toward the fovea. The enlargement of RNFLD in NTG was
closely associated with disc hemorrhage and the deterioration of the visual
field. We developed a simultaneous structure and function evaluation technique
combining spectral-domain (SD) optical coherence tomography (OCT) and
fundus-oriented perimeters for the detection of visual field abnormalities in the
RNFLD area. We superimposed the ganglion cell complex map obtained by SD-OCT on
the fundus-oriented perimeter image. We observed very early or preperimetric
normal pressure glaucoma as well as disc hemorrhage adjacent to the borders of
the RNFLD. The borderline of the RNFLD seemed to be the thinnest RNFL and had the
lowest retinal sensitivity (Active site for RNFLD progression). To clarify the
role of the circadian clock genes in the generation of a 24-hour IOP rhythm, we
used the microneedle method to measure the IOP at eight time points daily, both
in wild type mice and Cry-deficient (Cry 1-/-Cry 2-/-) mice. In the wild-type
mice living in light-dark conditions, the pressure measured in the light phase
was significantly lower than in the dark phase. This biphasic daily rhythm was
maintained under dark-dark conditions. In contrast, the Cry-deficient mice did
not show significant circadian changes in their IOP, regardless of the
environmental light conditions. These findings demonstrate that clock genes are
essential for the generation of the circadian rhythm of IOP. We evaluated the
relationship between the genetic polymorphisms of the adrenergic receptor (ADR)
and the diurnal IOP in untreated NTG patients. For Del 301-303 in α2B-ADR,
De1322-325 in α2C-ADR, and S 49G (A/G) in βl-ADR, the major homozygotes and minor
carriers had parallel diurnal IOP curves, but significantly different diurnal IOP
levels. Polymorphisms of the ADR gene may predict the diurnal IOP level of
patients with NTG. Looking toward the future, tailor-made medicine in glaucoma
therapy, we evaluated the relationship between the polymorphisms of the
prostaglandin F2α, receptor (FP receptor) gene and the effectiveness of topical
latanoprost treatment in 100 normal volunteers. One SNP(rs3753380) was located in
the promoter region of the FP receptor gene and was significantly correlated with
% IOP reduction. Two SNPs, rs3753380 and rs3766355 (an SNP in intron 1), were
associated with the degree of response to latanoprost. The genotype of these SNPs
may be an important determinant of variability in response to latanoprost. To
investigate the predictability of IOP response of the fellow eye in a one-eye
trials, we compared the correlation of the fellow-eye's IOP response in one-eye
trials performed separately for each eye with that of bilateral treatment in 41
normal subjects. Correlation of mean diurnal IOP reduction between 2 one-eye
trials was poor (r2 = 0.102), even after subtracting the nontreated eye IOP
fluctuations from the treated eye IOPs (r2 = 0.097), but that between fellow eyes
in bilateral treatment was excellent (r2 = 0.849). Therefore, we examined the
effects of multiple IOP measurements on the correlation of response to glaucoma
medication between fellow eyes. Latanoprost was applied to the first eye and then
to both eyes of POAG or ocular hypertension patients. IOP measurements were
performed twice on different days at baseline, during treatment of the first eye 
only and for both eyes. No significant correlations of ΔIOP 1 (IOP at
baseline-IOP after treatment) between fellow eyes were found. ΔIOP 2 (ΔIOP 1-IOP 
fluctuation of the contralateral eye) was significantly correlated between the
fellow eyes using two post-treatment IOP measurements. Using multiple IOP
measurements may improve the prediction of a fellow eye's response to glaucoma
medication in one-eye trials. We used a scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO) for
in vivo imaging and counting of rat retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). RGC survival
decreased gradually after crushing the optic nerve. RGC counts by SLO were
comparable to those in retinal flat mounts. We developed OCT system for rat eyes.
The mean retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thicknesses in the circumpapillary OCT 
scans were unchanged 1 week after crushing the optic nerve, but then decreased
significantly and progressively after the second week. RNFL thicknesses in OCT
images correlated significantly with thicknesses determined histologically. SLO
and OCT will be useful for evaluating the effects of neuroprotective drugs. We
developed a new glaucoma filtration surgery system using a thin
honeycomb-patterned biodegradable film in rabbits. The film had a
honeycomb-patterned surface that faced the subconjunctival Tenon tissue, while
the other side was smooth. Postoperative IOPs of the film-treated eyes were
significantly lower than those of the control eyes, but were not significantly
different from those of the MMC-treated eyes. The thin honeycomb-patterned film
that was attached to the inner bleb wall worked as an adhesion barrier in
glaucoma filtration surgery in rabbits.


PMID: 22568103  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Jun 20;53(7):3756-63. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-9818.

Association of TP53 polymorphisms with primary open-angle glaucoma: a
meta-analysis.

Guo Y(1), Zhang H, Chen X, Yang X, Cheng W, Zhao K.

Author information: 
(1)Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.

PURPOSE: To offer a comprehensive evaluation of the potential associations of
TP53 polymorphisms with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) through a systematic
review and meta-analysis of candidate genetic association study.
METHODS: Medline, Embase, Science Citation Index, the Cochrane Library, and other
databases (up to January 20, 2012) were searched by two investigators
independently. Pooled odd ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were used
to assess the strength of the associations between two TP53 polymorphisms (codon 
72 in exon 4 and 16 base-pair [bp] insertion in intron 3) and POAG. Statistical
analysis was performed with a commercial statistical and data analysis software
package.
RESULTS: Nine independent studies on TP codon 72 (1930 cases and 1463 controls)
and four articles on TP intron 3 16-bp insertion (858 cases and 683 controls)
were identified. The overall results showed that there was significant
association between TP53 codon 72 genotype and POAG risk in the recessive model
(OR = 1.31, 95% CI 1.05-1.64, P = 0.017). Also, our analysis suggested that TP53 
intron 3 16-bp insertion polymorphism was associated with decreased POAG risk in 
overall population when examining the contrast of Ins versus Del (OR 0.75, 95% CI
= 0.57-0.97, P = 0.031). In subgroup analyses for ethnicity (Caucasian, Asian),
we detected the association between codon 72 polymorphism and risk for POAG in
Asian populations (recessive model: OR = 1.36, 95% CI 1.03-1.80, P = 0.026) but
not in Caucasian populations. However, no significant finding was noted between
P53Arg72Pro and risk for open-angle glaucoma either in high tension glaucoma or
in normal tension glaucoma. Because of insufficient studies on TP53 16-bp
insertion polymorphism, no subgroup analyses were conducted according to
ethnicity and glaucoma subtype to detect the effect of this polymorphism on the
susceptibility to POAG.
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis showed the evidence that TP53 codon 72 (CC versus
CG+GG) and intron 3 16-bp insertion (Ins versus Del) polymorphisms may affect
individual susceptibility to POAG. Moreover, stratified analyses that detected
the effect of TP53 codon 72 polymorphism seemed to be varied by ethnicity. Given 
the limited sample size, further investigations are needed to validate the
association.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-9818 
PMID: 22562509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Can J Ophthalmol. 2012 Apr;47(2):155-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2012.01.008. Epub
2012 Mar 13.

Relationship between central corneal thickness and progression of visual field
loss in patients with open-angle glaucoma.

Cao KY(1), Kapasi M, Betchkal JA, Birt CM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether a relationship exists between central corneal
thickness (CCT) and visual field (VF) progression in treated patients with
open-angle glaucoma and asymmetric corneal thickness.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
PARTICIPANTS: We studied 100 charts of patients with open-angle glaucoma and also
bilateral CCT and VF data.
METHODS: Charts from 2 glaucoma subspecialty practices were reviewed. The CCT and
the rate of progression and event analysis of visual field data were assessed in 
all subjects. Subanalysis was performed for subjects whose CCT asymmetry was ≥ 16
μm.
RESULTS: The mean CCT was 544 ± 40 μm OD and 541 ± 40 μm OS. The mean CCT
difference between fellow eyes was 15 ± 11 μm (range, 1 to 52 μm). There was no
significant intrasubject difference in the mean deviation (MD) and the pattern
standard deviation (PSD) (p =0.917 and p = 0.704, respectively; paired t test).
The more advanced VF MDs and PSDs were found in the thin eyes of 47 and 50
subjects, respectively (p = 0.459 and p = 0.317, respectively; χ(2)). Of the 65
subjects whose visual field indexes were available, 34 had the more rapid visual 
field index rates of progression in the thin eye (p = 0.400; χ(2)). Of the 27
subjects for whom event analysis was available, 15 had the worse progression
category in the thin eye (p = 0.453, χ2). Subgroup analysis of 48 subjects with ≥
16 μm CCT asymmetry did not find any significant difference in analyses of field 
progression between fellow eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: No relationship was found between CCT and VF loss in treated
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or normal-tension glaucoma with
asymmetrical CCT. Specifically, the thin eye did not have the more advanced VF
loss or more rapid VF progression.

Copyright © 2012 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2012.01.008 
PMID: 22560421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Glaucoma. 2013 Aug;22(6):473-86. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318255bc37.

Gene finding in primary open-angle glaucoma.

van Koolwijk LM(1), Bunce C, Viswanathan AC.

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Ophthalmology, Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS
Foundation Trust and UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK.
l.vankoolwijk@oogziekenhuis.nl

There is extensive evidence that there is a genetic component to developing
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Unraveling this genetic component might
clarify the pathophysiology of the disease and greatly assist in treatment and
prevention of visual loss of many thousands of individuals. Linkage and
association studies have helped identify loci and genes involved. The vast
majority of the known heritable component of POAG, however, remains to be
elucidated. Future studies should further investigate the identified loci and
their role across different populations; assess genetic interactions and
genotype-phenotype correlations; and aim at identifying new POAG genes by modern 
sequencing techniques.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318255bc37 
PMID: 22549476  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Cornea. 2012 Aug;31(8):883-6. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e318243f684.

Effect of central corneal thickness on the long-term outcome of selective laser
trabeculoplasty as primary treatment for ocular hypertension and primary
open-angle glaucoma.

Shazly TA(1), Latina MA, Dagianis JJ, Chitturi S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary/Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. shazlyt@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To determine if central corneal thickness (CCT) impacts the intraocular 
pressure (IOP)-lowering effect of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) in
patients with ocular hypertension (OHT) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of consecutive patients, who underwent SLT 
as primary treatment for OHT and POAG, between 2002 and 2005, was performed.
Partial correlation analysis was performed to correlate the CCT to the percentage
of IOP reduction at 3 to 30 months after SLT. Independent samples t test was
performed to compare mean percentage of IOP reduction in eyes with CCT less than 
555 μm versus CCT 555 μm or greater.
RESULTS: Eighty eyes of 47 patients were identified. The partial correlation
coefficient value between the CCT and percentage of IOP reduction after SLT at 3 
months was -0.253 (P = 0.025), at 12 months it was -0.22 (P = 0.049), and at 30
months it was 0.301 (P = 0.007). Independent samples t test showed that the mean 
percentage of IOP reduction in eyes with thinner corneas (CCT < 555 μm) was
greater than that in thicker corneas (CCT ≥ 555 μm) at 3-, 6-, 9-, 12-, and
30-month post-SLT (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with POAG and OHT, percentage of IOP reduction after SLT
was significantly greater in eyes with thinner corneas (CCT < 555 μm). These
findings indicate that patients treated with SLT as primary therapy who had
thinner corneas demonstrated better IOP control for at least 30 months after SLT.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e318243f684 
PMID: 22525783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Jun;96(6):816-20. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2012-301499.
Epub 2012 Apr 4.

Avoidable sight loss from glaucoma: is it unavoidable?

Kotecha A(1), Fernandes S, Bunce C, Franks WA.

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Ophthalmology, Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS
Foundation Trust, UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK.

AIMS: To review the characteristics of patients attending a tertiary ophthalmic
referral centre certified as sight impaired (SI) or severely sight impaired (SSI)
from glaucoma.
METHODS: One hundred consecutive patients certified SI/SSI from the Glaucoma
Service at Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, from January 2007 were identified
from the England and Wales certification of visual impairment database. Clinical 
and demographic data were collected from hospital case records.
RESULTS: The median (IQR) age of patients at presentation was 66.3 (55.6 to 75.3)
years; median (IQR) interval to certification was 62.2 (22.5 to 129.3) months.
Fifty-seven patients presented with bilateral SSI (median (IQR) age 70.4 (59.0 to
76.9) years); interval to certification was 35.4 (5.6 to 78.1) months. Seventeen 
patients presented with a bilateral SI (median (IQR) age 62.1 (58.7 to 68.4)
years; median (IQR) interval to certification: 137.4 (64.4 to 190.4) months).
Twenty-eight patients showed disease progression while under National Health
Service hospital eye service care, five of whom had no certifiable visual
impairment in either eye at presentation. This was attributed to inadequate
intraocular pressure control; five of these patients (18%) were deemed poorly
compliant to topical hypotensive medication.
CONCLUSIONS: Over 80% patients on the certification of visual impairment register
from Moorfields Eye Hospital with glaucoma as the primary cause had a significant
visual disability at presentation, with almost two-thirds of patients presenting 
bilaterally 'blind'. There appear to be delays to certification. Despite being
under the hospital eye service, a number of glaucoma patients still progress to
certifiable visual impairment.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2012-301499 
PMID: 22493037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Optom Vis Sci. 2012 May;89(5):E803-11. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3182504214.

Relative importance of factors affecting corneal hysteresis measurement.

Sullivan-Mee M(1), Katiyar S, Pensyl D, Halverson KD, Qualls C.

Author information: 
(1)Albuquerque VA Medical Center, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87108, USA.
Michael.Sullivan-Mee@va.gov

PURPOSE: To evaluate the relative influences of several demographic, ocular, and 
systemic parameters on corneal hysteresis (CH).
METHODS: This is a prospective, observational, cross-sectional study using
subjects recruited from consecutive Albuquerque VAMC eye clinic patients. We
classified eligible subjects as primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), ocular
hypertension, glaucoma suspect, or normal. We used the Ocular Response Analyzer, 
Pascal Dynamic Contour Tonometer, and Goldmann applanation tonometer to obtain
intraocular pressure (IOP), CH, corneal resistance factor, and ocular pulse
amplitude values. We also obtained corneal curvature, central corneal thickness
(CCT), axial length, retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, clinical cup/disc ratio
(CDR) estimates, and standard automated perimetry metrics (mean defect, pattern
standard deviation). We gathered glycosylated hemoglobin (A1C) data through chart
review. Multivariate regression analyses were used to determine independent
relationships between CH and the other parameters.
RESULTS: Three hundred seventeen eyes in 317 subjects were studied (116 POAG, 87 
ocular hypertension, 47 glaucoma suspect, and 67 normal). In univariate
regression analysis, CH varied directly with CCT (β = 0.39, p < 0.001), corneal
curvature (β = 0.16, p = 0.01), corneal resistance factor (β = 0.57, p < 0.001), 
A1C (β = 0.15, p = 0.01), mean defect (β = 0.29, p < 0.001), and retinal nerve
fiber layer (β = 0.31, p < 0.001). Factors inversely related to CH were age (β = 
-0.22, p < 0.001), IOP (β = -0.29, p < 0.001), ocular pulse amplitude (β = -0.11,
p = 0.04), CDR (β = -0.34, p < 0.001), and pattern standard deviation (β = -0.29,
p < 0.001). CH was lower in POAG compared with the other diagnostic groups. In
multivariate analysis, CH was independently associated with age, IOP, CCT, A1C,
glaucoma diagnosis, and CDR. Of these factors, CCT and IOP demonstrated twice as 
much influence on CH compared with the other four factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Although this study identified six separate variables that
independently influence CH values, the overall r value indicates that these
variables together only explain 40% of CH variability. These results suggest that
other significant sources of variability exist and deserve investigation.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3182504214 
PMID: 22426173  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Ann Intern Med. 2012 Mar 6;156(5):367-77. doi:
10.7326/0003-4819-156-5-201203060-00009.

What comparative effectiveness research is needed? A framework for using
guidelines and systematic reviews to identify evidence gaps and research
priorities.

Li T(1), Vedula SS, Scherer R, Dickersin K.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Clinical Trials, Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. tli@jhsph.edu

The authors developed and tested a framework for identifying evidence gaps and
prioritizing comparative effectiveness research by using a combination of
clinical practice guidelines and systematic reviews. In phase 1 of the project,
reported elsewhere, 45 clinical questions on the management of primary open-angle
glaucoma were derived from practice guidelines and prioritized by using a 2-round
Delphi survey of clinicians. On the basis of the clinicians' responses, 9
questions were classified as high-priority. In phase 2, reported here, systematic
reviews that addressed the 45 clinical questions were identified. The reviews
were classified as at low, high, or unclear risk of bias, and evidence gaps (in
which no systematic review was at low risk of bias) were identified. The
following comparative effectiveness research agenda is proposed: Two of the 9
high-priority questions require new primary research (such as a randomized,
controlled trial) and 4 require a new systematic review. The utility and
limitations of the framework and future adaptations are discussed.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-156-5-201203060-00009 
PMCID: PMC3804310
PMID: 22393132  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 May-Jun;40(4):369-80. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02770.x. Epub 2012 Apr 12.

'Structure-function relationship' in glaucoma: past thinking and current
concepts.

Malik R(1), Swanson WH, Garway-Heath DF.

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Ophthalmology, Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS
Foundation Trust & UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK.

An understanding of the relationship between functional and structural measures
in primary open-angle glaucoma is necessary for both grading the severity of
disease and for understanding the natural history of the condition. This article 
outlines the current evidence for the nature of this relationship and highlights 
the current mathematical models linking structure and function. Large clinical
trials demonstrate that both structural and functional change are apparent in
advanced stages of disease, and at an individual level, detectable structural
abnormality may precede functional abnormality in some patients, whereas the
converse is true in other patients. Although the exact nature of the
'structure-function' relationship in primary open-angle glaucoma is still the
topic of scientific debate and the subject of continuing research, this article
aims to provide the clinician with an understanding of the past concepts and
contemporary thinking in relation to the structure-function relationship in
primary open-angle glaucoma.

© 2012 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2012 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2012.02770.x 
PMCID: PMC3693944
PMID: 22339936  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Singapore Med J. 2012 Feb;53(2):82-7.

Review of key findings from the Singapore Malay Eye Study (SiMES-1).

Rosman M(1), Zheng Y, Lamoureux E, Saw SM, Aung T, Tay WT, Wang JJ, Mitchell P,
Tai ES, Wong TY.

Author information: 
(1)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore, Singapore.

INTRODUCTION: This study highlights the key epidemiological findings from the
Singapore Malay Eye Study (SiMES-1).
METHODS: SiMES-1 was a cross-sectional, population-based epidemiological study on
eye diseases. It was performed on 3,280 randomly selected Malay adults living in 
the south-western part of Singapore. All study participants underwent various
validated questionnaires and detailed eye examinations. A review of all papers
published from SiMES-1 was performed.
RESULTS: A total of 24.6% of the study population had myopia, while 35.3% had
hyperopia and 39.4% had astigmatism. 20.4% of the population had under-corrected 
refractive error. 1,338 (45.7%) participants were diagnosed to have cataracts in 
at least one eye. 8.6% of the study population had undergone cataract surgery in 
either eye, while 4.7% had bilateral cataract surgery. 150 (4.6%) participants
were diagnosed to have glaucoma, of which primary open angle glaucoma was the
most common type (3.2% of the study population), followed by secondary glaucoma
(0.8%) and primary angle closure glaucoma (0.2%). Pterygium was diagnosed in 508 
out of 3,266 study participants, giving a prevalence rate of 15.6%. The presence 
of diabetic retinopathy was observed in 421 (12.9%) out of 3,265 study
participants. 183 (5.6%) study participants had some degree of age-related
macular degeneration (AMD), of which 23 (0.7%) were classified as having late
AMD.
CONCLUSION: This paper provides a summary of the prevalence of common eye
diseases among the Singaporean adult Malay population and provides data useful
for public health education and disease prevention.


PMID: 22337179  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012 Feb 15;(2):CD006746. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD006746.pub3.

Laser peripheral iridoplasty for angle-closure.

Ng WS(1), Ang GS, Azuara-Blanco A.

Author information: 
(1)c/o Cochrane Eyes andVision, ICEH, London School ofHygiene&TropicalMedicine,
London,UK. waisiene@doctors.org.uk.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008;(3):CD006746.

BACKGROUND: Angle-closure glaucoma is a leading cause of irreversible blindness
in the world. Treatment is aimed at opening the anterior chamber angle and
lowering the IOP with medical and/or surgical treatment (e.g. trabeculectomy,
lens extraction). Laser iridotomy works by eliminating pupillary block and widens
the anterior chamber angle in the majority of patients. When laser iridotomy
fails to open the anterior chamber angle, laser iridoplasty may be recommended as
one of the options in current standard treatment for angle-closure. Laser
peripheral iridoplasty works by shrinking and pulling the peripheral iris tissue 
away from the trabecular meshwork. Laser peripheral iridoplasty can be used for
crisis of acute angle-closure and also in non-acute situations.  
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of laser peripheral iridoplasty in the
treatment of narrow angles (i.e. primary angle-closure suspect), primary
angle-closure (PAC) or primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) in non-acute
situations when compared with any other intervention. In this review,
angle-closure will refer to patients with narrow angles (PACs), PAC and PACG.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision 
Group Trials Register) (The Cochrane Library 2011, Issue 12), MEDLINE (January
1950 to January 2012), EMBASE (January 1980 to January 2012), Latin American and 
Caribbean Literature on Health Sciences (LILACS) (January 1982 to January 2012), 
the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT) (www.controlled-trials.com),
ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the WHO International Clinical
Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). There were no
date or language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. The
electronic databases were last searched on 5 January 2012.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included only randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in this 
review. Patients with narrow angles, PAC or PACG were eligible. We excluded
studies that included only patients with acute presentations, using laser
peripheral iridoplasty to break acute crisis.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: No analysis was carried out as only one trial was
included in the review.
MAIN RESULTS: We included one RCT with 158 participants. The trial reported laser
peripheral iridoplasty as an adjunct to laser peripheral iridotomy compared to
iridotomy alone. The authors report no superiority in using iridoplasty as an
adjunct to iridotomy for IOP, number of medications or need for surgery.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is currently no strong evidence for laser peripheral 
iridoplasty's use in treating angle-closure.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006746.pub3 
PMID: 22336823  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2012 Feb;229(2):143-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1299262. Epub 
2012 Feb 14.

[Integrity/demyelination of the optic radiation, morphology of the papilla, and
contrast sensitivity in glaucoma patients].

[Article in German]

Michelson G(1), Wärntges S, Engelhorn T, El-Rafei A, Hornegger J, Dörfler A.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universitätsklinikum Erlangen.

BACKGROUND: In primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and its non-barotraumatic
subgroup, normal tension glaucoma (NTG), the pathophysiological differences are
not clear. A participation of the 4th neuron of the visual pathway (optic
radiation) appears possible on the basis of related experimental studies. The
goal of the present study was the evaluation of the optic radiation by diffusion 
tensor imaging (DTI), which is based on the magnetic resonance imaging. The
diffusion and anisotropy parameters of the optic radiation as a marker of axonal 
integrity and demyelination/damage of glial cells, respectively, were used to
investigate the relation between the morphology of the papilla (BLDF, linear
discriminant function of Burk) and the contrast sensitivity (FDT, frequency
doubling test).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this prospective observational study 13 POAG patients,
13 NTG patients, and 7 control patients of the same mean age were included. For
segmentation of the optic radiation a semi-automated algorithm was applied and
the diffusion and anisotropy parameters were calculated. The importance of the
covariates age, BLDF, and FDT for the DTI parameters was determined using partial
correlation analysis.
RESULTS: Analysis of the covariates partially showed a clear autocorrelation. The
correlations between the DTI parameters and BLDF were significant in all groups
after correction of the measurement values for the covariates. FDT correlated
with DTI parameters in controls and POAG. The NTG group did not show this
correlation due to a strong spreading of the FDT values.
CONCLUSION: After statistical elimination of the autocorrelation of the
covariates age, BLDF, and FDT the morphology of the papilla correlated with the
axonal integrity and demyelination/glia cell impairment of the optic radiation in
controls and glaucoma. In NTG the impaired contrast sensitivity is highly
variable and is not associated with the condition of the 3rd or 4th neuron,
respectively, as compared to POAG. The autocorrelation between individual
covariates represents an important element for the judgement of the visual
pathway.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1299262 
PMID: 22334412  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Mar 15;53(3):1422-7. doi: 10.1167/iovs.11-8220.
Print 2012 Mar.

Body mass index has a linear relationship with cerebrospinal fluid pressure.

Berdahl JP(1), Fleischman D, Zaydlarova J, Stinnett S, Allingham RR, Fautsch MP.

Author information: 
(1)Vance Thompson Vision, University of South Dakota Medical Center, Sioux Falls,
South Dakota, USA.

PURPOSE: To examine the relationship between body mass index (BMI) and
cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP), as low BMI and low CSFP have recently been
described as risk factors for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: This was a retrospective review of the electronic medical records of
patients who had CSFP measured by lumbar puncture and data to calculate BMI at
the Mayo Clinic (Rochester, MN). Exclusion criteria included diagnoses, surgical 
procedures and medications known to affect CSFP. Mean CSFP for each unit BMI was 
calculated. The probabilities were two-tailed, and the α level was set at P <
0.05. Patients with documented BMI, CSFP, and intraocular pressure (IOP) were
analyzed for the relationship between IOP and BMI.
RESULTS: A total of 4235 patients, primarily of Caucasian descent, met the entry 
criteria. Median BMI was 26 and the mean CSFP was 10.9 ± 2.6 mm Hg. The increase 
in CSFP with increasing BMI was linear with an r(2) = 0.20 (P < 0.001). CSFP
increased by 37.7% from BMI 18 (8.6 ± 2.1 mm Hg) to BMI 39 (14.1 ± 2.5 mm Hg).
The r(2) (0.21) of the model of BMI and sex was similar to the r(2) of a BMI-only
model (0.20). There was no relation between IOP and BMI within a subgroup of the 
study population (r (2) = 0.005; P = 0.14).
CONCLUSIONS: CSFP has a positive, linear relationship with BMI. IOP is not
influenced by BMI. If CSFP influences the risk for POAG, then individuals with a 
lower BMI may have an increased risk for developing POAG. Similarly, a higher BMI
may be protective.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.11-8220 
PMCID: PMC3339912
PMID: 22323469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2011 Oct;47(10):953-6.

[The progress of aqueous humor outflow pathway in open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

An L(1), Ji J.

Author information: 
(1)Tianjin Medical University Eye Center, Tianjin 300384, China.

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is defined as an optic neuropathy
characterized by loss of optic nerve axons and retinal ganglion cells. Increase
of intraocular pressure (IOP) is a major risk factor for POAG, which is partially
due to an abnormally high aqueous humor outflow resistance in trabecular meshwork
(TM). Trabecular outflow pathway is a key element in drainage of aqueous humor.
Malfunction of TM in POAG is associated with over expression of inflammatory
markers, cellular senescence, oxidative stress, and decrease of cellularity. The 
biological changes of TM cell and extracellular matrix compromise trabecular
pathway drainage resulting in an increased IOP. This article reviewed the
progression in research on aqueous humor outflow pathway emphasizing the
alteration of trabecular pathway.


PMID: 22321508  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2011 Oct;47(10):867-70.

[Management of primary open angle glaucoma by paying attention to monitor
intraocular pressure fluctuations].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu LL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking University Third Hospital, Key Laboratory 
of Vision Loss and Restoration, Ministry of Education, Beijing 100191, China.
wullc@hotmail.com

Higher intraocular pressure (IOP) is a risk factor for the development and
progression of glaucomatous neuropathy. Increasing attention has been brought to 
IOP fluctuation in patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) in recent
years. IOP fluctuations include short-term (24-hour IOP fluctuations) and
long-term fluctuations, which may contribute to the progression of glaucoma. It
is a big challenge for ophthalmologists in their busy daily clinical practice to 
deal with IOP fluctuation in patients with POAG. In this paper, the research
progress in IOP fluctuation of POAG and its relationship with glaucomatous
neuropathy was reviewed. Furthermore, how to monitor by useful measures and
manage IOP fluctuation by effective medication were discussed.


PMID: 22321493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2012 Sep-Oct;22(5):719-25. doi: 10.5301/ejo.5000110.

Bleb-associated endophthalmitis in a Chinese population (2003-2010): clinical
characteristics and visual outcome.

Ye H(1), Sun X, Gan D, Yu X, Zhou W, Xu G, Jiang R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eye and ENT Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai,
PR China.

PURPOSE: To analyze the clinical characteristics and treatment outcomes of
patients with bleb-associated endophthalmitis (BAE) in a Chinese population.
METHODS: A retrospective review of patients treated for BAE between January 2003 
and December 2010 in a single institution was performed. Data on visual acuity
(VA), clinical characteristics, causative organisms, and treatment outcomes were 
collected and analyzed.
RESULTS: Thirty-one eyes from 31 patients with BAE were identified during the
study period. Primary open-angle glaucoma was the most common type of glaucoma in
this series (18 eyes, 58.1%). The time between glaucoma filtering surgery and
diagnosis of endophthalmitis ranged from 18 days to 32 years, with a mean of 6.95
± 8.22 years. Nine eyes (32.1%) were culture positive, and the most common
organisms identified were Staphylococcus species (6/9, 66.7%). Best-corrected VA 
at 12 months after treatment ranged from 20/30 to no light perception (NLP).
Twelve (38.7%) eyes achieved VA of 20/400 or better, and 7 (22.6%) eyes had NLP. 
In patients undergoing initial tap-and-inject treatment, the eyes with presenting
VA of finger count or better were associated with a higher treatment success rate
(87.5%) than those of hand movement (33.3%) or light perception or NLP (9.1%).
CONCLUSIONS: Primary open-angle glaucoma was the most common type of glaucoma,
and Staphylococcus species was the most common causative organism in this case
series of BAE. Despite prompt treatment with appropriate intravitreal
antibiotics, BAE still carries a poor visual prognosis.

DOI: 10.5301/ejo.5000110 
PMID: 22287170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


272. J Glaucoma. 2013 Aug;22(6):506-9. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31824484e6.

Review of the influence of pigment dispersion and exfoliation glaucoma diagnosis 
on intraocular pressure in clinical trials evaluating primary open-angle glaucoma
and ocular hypertension.

Stewart WC(1), DeMill DL, Wirostko BM, Nelson LA, Stewart JA.

Author information: 
(1)PRN Pharmaceutical Research Network, Cheyenne, WY 82001, USA. info@prnorb.com

PURPOSE: To evaluate published, randomized, prospective, parallel clinical trials
utilizing currently approved glaucoma medications to determine what influence, if
any, pigment dispersion (PD) or exfoliation glaucoma (XFG) patients had on the
intraocular pressure.
METHODS: A review of clinical trial articles evaluating currently used topical
glaucoma medicines. Articles were published between January 1995 and April 2011. 
If the articles met the inclusion/exclusion criteria, they were analyzed for PD
and XFG.
RESULTS: Twenty-four articles were included, containing 49 treatment arms that
included PD or XFG patients. The range of PD patients was 0% to 4.5%, with a mean
of 1.5±0.9%, and for XFG patients 0% to 6.3%, with a mean of 2.2±2.1%. The
treatment arms with PD showed a difference in the intraocular pressures (IOPs),
for all studies analyzed together, for the baseline IOPs between clinical trials 
that did and did not include PD patients (8 AM IOPs: with PD 26.5±0.9 mm Hg and
without PD 25.8±1.3 mm Hg, P=0.024; and diurnal curve mean IOPs: with PD 25.3±1.1
mm Hg and without PD 24.5±1.3 mm Hg, P=0.024). The XFG treatment arms showed that
there was a difference in the IOPs for all studies analyzed together for diurnal 
baseline IOPs between clinical trials that did and did not include XFG patients
(with XFG 25.2±1.2 mm Hg and without XFG 24.3±1.0 mm Hg, P=0.016).
CONCLUSIONS: Trial designs for prospective, parallel, glaucoma clinical studies
that are performed in the United States generally can include PD and XFG patients
with only a small impact on the IOP and a low number of such subjects enrolled.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31824484e6 
PMID: 22274674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Clin Ophthalmol. 2012;6:45-7. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S26659. Epub 2012 Jan 6.

Helicobacter pylori infection and primary open-angle glaucoma: is there a
connection?

Tsolaki F(1), Gogaki E, Sakkias F, Skatharoudi C, Lopatatzidi C, Tsoulopoulos V, 
Lampoura S, Topouzis F, Tsolaki M, Kountouras J.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Hippokrateion Hospital of Thessaloniki,
Thessaloniki, Greece.

Glaucoma, the most common form of which is primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), is
a neurodegenerative disease which is the second most common cause of blindness
worldwide. Among the factors that have been implicated in the pathophysiology of 
this disease is infection with Helicobacter pylori. This alleged association has 
caused a great deal of scientific discussion during the past decade, as the
establishment of such a correlation might lead to therapeutic applications for
all glaucoma patients. In this review, we assess all relevant major studies and
trials in an effort to elucidate the issue.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S26659 
PMCID: PMC3259099
PMID: 22259235  [PubMed]


274. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2012 Mar;23(2):111-7. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32834f1887.

What's new in laser treatment for glaucoma?

Meyer JJ(1), Lawrence SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599-7040, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review highlights recently published studies on
prevailing and newer laser therapies in glaucoma and critically evaluates their
roles in the treatment algorithm.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recently published studies suggest a role for selective laser
trabeculoplasty (SLT) as initial therapy for open-angle glaucoma and ocular
hypertension and have demonstrated efficacy in other glaucoma subtypes. Novel
laser applications (micropulse diode laser trabeculoplasty, titanium sapphire
laser trabeculoplasty and excimer laser trabeculotomy) have shown favorable early
results. Endoscopic and transscleral cyclophotocoagulation (ECP, TCP) are
generally reserved for refractory glaucomas, although some recent studies report 
its use in patients with good visual acuity. The effectiveness of laser iridotomy
with or without iridoplasty for long-term prevention of primary angle closure
glaucoma is undetermined. Laser goniopuncture is an important adjunct to
nonpenetrating surgery, but wide adoption of the procedure is lacking.
SUMMARY: The use of lasers in glaucoma continues to evolve, with a trend towards 
primary and earlier intervention. SLT is assuming an expanded role in the
treatment of additional subtypes of glaucoma, whereas ECP and TCP are generally
reserved for refractory glaucomas. Newer laser modalities show promise as
alternatives and adjuncts to topical medications and nonpenetrating surgery.
Additional research is needed to better define their safety and efficacy.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32834f1887 
PMID: 22186007  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Eye (Lond). 2012 Mar;26(3):355-69. doi: 10.1038/eye.2011.309. Epub 2011 Dec 16.

Current concepts on primary open-angle glaucoma genetics: a contribution to
disease pathophysiology and future treatment.

Gemenetzi M(1), Yang Y, Lotery AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Southampton Eye Unit, Southampton General Hospital, Southampton, UK.

Glaucoma is a common, complex, heterogenous disease and it constitutes the major 
cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is 
the most common type of glaucoma in all populations. Most of the molecular
mechanisms leading to POAG development are still unknown. Gene mutations in
various populations have been identified by genetic studies and a genetic basis
for glaucoma pathogenesis has been established. Linkage analysis and association 
studies are genetic approaches in the investigation of the genetic basis of POAG.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are more powerful compared with linkage
analysis in discovering genes of small effect that might contribute to the
development of the disease. POAG links to at least 20 genetic loci, but only 2
genes identified in these loci, myocilin and optineurin, are considered as
well-established glaucoma-causing genes, whereas the role of other loci, genes,
and variants implicated in the development of POAG remains controversial. Gene
mutations associated with POAG result in retinal ganglion cell death, which is
the common outcome of pathogenetic mechanisms in glaucoma. In future, if the
sensitivity and specificity of genotyping increases, it may be possible to screen
individuals routinely for disease susceptibility. This review is an update on the
latest progress of genetic studies associated with POAG. It emphasizes the
correlation of recent achievements in genetics with glaucoma pathophysiology,
glaucoma treatment perspectives, and the possibility of future prevention of
irreversible visual loss caused by the disease.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2011.309 
PMCID: PMC3298987
PMID: 22173078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 May-Jun;40(4):358-63. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02744.x. Epub 2012 Feb 20.

Genome-wide association studies in the hunt for genes causing primary open-angle 
glaucoma: a review.

Burdon KP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia,
Australia. Kathryn.burdon@flinders.edu.au

Genome-wide association studies are a powerful tool for the identification of
genetic risk factors for complex disease. This methodology has been successfully 
applied to primary open-angle glaucoma through the analysis of primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) as well as specific subgroups of patients including those with
normal tension glaucoma and advanced glaucoma. In addition, the analysis of
quantitative traits important in POAG, including optic disc area and vertical
cup-to-disc ratio has also identified genes important in POAG development. This
review explores findings of genome-wide association studies for POAG and related 
traits.

© 2011 The Author. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2011 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02744.x 
PMID: 22171998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Mitochondrion. 2012 Mar;12(2):202-12. doi: 10.1016/j.mito.2011.11.004. Epub 2011 
Nov 28.

Mitochondrial dysfunction in glaucoma: understanding genetic influences.

Lascaratos G(1), Garway-Heath DF, Willoughby CE, Chau KY, Schapira AH.

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre for Ophthalmology, Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS
Foundation Trust, London EC1V 2PD, UK. glascaratos@gmail.com

Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. This review
aims to provide a greater understanding of the complex genetic influences that
may lead to mitochondrial dysfunction and increase susceptibility to retinal
ganglion cell (RGC) loss in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), and thus
elucidate potentially important pathophysiological pathways amenable to
therapeutic intervention. Emerging evidence from genome wide association and
other genetic studies suggests that changes in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and 
in nuclear DNA genes that encode mitochondrial proteins may influence
mitochondrial structure and function and, therefore, contribute to the
pathogenesis of POAG. We propose that a variety of genes (OPA1, MFN1, MFN2,
CYP1B1, PARL, SOD2, SRBD1, GST, NOS3, TNFa and TP53) may each confer a background
susceptibility to POAG in different populations having one common link:
mitochondrial dysfunction. The relationship between polymorphisms in these genes 
and increasing risk for POAG is presented and the limitations of the available
current knowledge are discussed.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. and Mitochondria Research Society. All rights
reserved. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mito.2011.11.004 
PMID: 22138560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Glaucoma. 2013 Apr-May;22(4):301-6. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31824083ca.

The prevalence of primary glaucoma in mainland China: a systematic review and
meta-analysis.

Cheng JW(1), Cheng SW, Ma XY, Cai JP, Li Y, Wei RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital, Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai, China.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of primary glaucoma in mainland China and
to quantify its association with age, sex, and region.
METHODS: Population-based studies that reported the prevalence of primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) or/and primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) among
adult populations in mainland China were identified through systematic searches. 
Fourteen articles providing 12 population-based studies were included. The
overall pooled prevalence estimates were calculated using a random-effects model.
A logistic metaregression was used to model the associations between the odds
ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval of primary glaucoma and age, sex, and
region.
RESULTS: The overall pooled prevalence of POAG was 0.7% (95% confidence interval,
0.4-1.2), and PACG was found in 1.4% (1.0%, 1.7%). The OR per decade increase in 
age was 1.68 (1.12, 2.52) for POAG, and 2.11 (1.72, 2.60) for PACG. The OR of
POAG prevalence was 0.65 (0.26, 1.62) between men and women. Chinese women were
1.75 (1.20, 2.56) times more likely than men to have PACG. The OR between western
China and east China were 0.37 (0.10, 1.35) for POAG, and 1.06 (0.63, 1.76) for
PACG. The OR between urban China and rural China were 3.92 (1.55, 9.92) for POAG,
and 1.07 (0.55, 2.10) for PACG.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of PACG was approximately double that of POAG in
adult Chinese. The rate of change of PACG prevalence with age increased more
rapidly than that of POAG. The prevalence of POAG in urban was higher than that
in rural. PACG was more common in women than in men.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31824083ca 
PMID: 22134352  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


279. West Afr J Med. 2011 May-Jun;30(3):173-7.

Outcome of trabeculectomy with 5-fluorouracil using releasable suture technique
in a Nigerian Tertiary Hospital.

Komolafe OO(1), Ashaye AO, Bekibele CO, Baiyeroju AM, Olawoye OO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Federal Medical Centre, Owo, Nigeria.
kopeyemi@yahoo.co.uk

BACKGROUND: Trabeculectomy has undergone a series of modifications in recent
times most of which are aimed at improving the efficacy of the procedure while
reducing complications. The use of releasable sutures is one of such
modifications.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and complications associated with the use of
releasable sutures and 5-Fluorouracil(5-FU) in trabeculectomy among indigenous
African patients with primary open angle glaucoma.
METHODS: This was a chart review of 22 eyes of 17 patients diagnosed with primary
open angle glaucoma. All the eyes included in the review had trabeculectomy with 
5-Fluorouracil using releasable suture technique with postoperative clinic
follow- up visit for a minimum period of 72 weeks. Information sought included
patient's demographics, preoperative antiglaucoma medications, pre- and post-
operative intraocular pressure, and associated complications.
RESULTS: There were 17(13 M, 4 F) patients with 22 eye surgeries. Their mean age 
was 49.8 ± 9.3 years. The mean preoperative intraocular pressure was 27.7 ± 5.9
mmHg. The intraocular pressure on the first post-operative day was 10.6 ± 11.1
mmHg. The mean pressure before the removal of the releasable suture was 14.1 ±
10.8 mmHg and after removal was 6.0 ± 7.2 mmHg, (p > 0.0001). The mean
intraocular pressure at 72 weeks of follow up was 16.9 ±5.6 mmHg. A qualified
success rate of 81.8% was achieved in terms of intraocular pressure control.
There were two eyes complicated by blebitis and an eye complicated by malignant
glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: The use of releasable suture in trabeculectomy helped in maintaining 
the intraocular pressure at a lower level in the early postoperative period and
in reducing postoperative shallowing of the anterior chamber. The procedure
appears to be associated with some sight- threatening complications such as
endophthalmitis.


PMID: 22120481  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Cell Tissue Res. 2012 Jan;347(1):279-90. doi: 10.1007/s00441-011-1274-7. Epub
2011 Nov 19.

The role of TGF-β in the pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma.

Fuchshofer R(1), Tamm ER.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of Regensburg,
Regensburg, Germany.

Transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2) is found in increasing amounts in aqueous 
humor and reactive optic nerve astrocytes of patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG), a major cause of blindness worldwide. The available data
strongly indicate that TGF-β2 is a key player contributing to the structural
changes in the extracellular matrix (ECM) of the trabecular meshwork and optic
nerve head as characteristically seen in POAG. The changes involve an induction
in the expression of various ECM molecules and are remarkably similar in
trabecular meshwork cells and optic nerve head astrocytes. The ECM changes in the
trabecular meshwork most probably play a role in the increase of aqueous humor
outflow resistance causing higher intraocular pressure (IOP). In the optic nerve 
head, TGF-β2-induced changes might contribute to deformation of the optic nerve
axons causing impairment of axonal transport and neurotrophic supply and leading 
to their continuous degeneration. The increase in IOP further adds mechanical
stress and strain to optic nerve axons and accelerates degenerative changes. In
addition, high IOP might induce the expression of activated TGF-β1 in trabecular 
meshwork cells and optic nerve head astrocytes; this again might significantly
lead to the progress of axonal degeneration. The action of TGF-β2 in POAG is
largely mediated through the connective tissue growth factor, whereas the
activities of TGF-β1 and -β2 are modulated by the blocking effects of bone
morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP-4) and BMP-7, by gremlin that inhibits BMP signaling
and by several species of microRNAs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-011-1274-7 
PMID: 22101332  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Semin Ophthalmol. 2011 Jul-Sep;26(4-5):285-9. doi: 10.3109/08820538.2011.588650.

The use of prostaglandin analogs in the uveitic patient.

Horsley MB(1), Chen TC.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA 02114, USA. horsley@sweye.com

Glaucoma is a disease process characterized by progressive optic nerve damage and
corresponding visual field loss. It may be further categorized into either
primary open-angle glaucoma or secondary glaucoma. These secondary glaucomas
include glaucomas associated with uveitis and inflammation. Prostaglandin analogs
(PGA) have been used to help lower intraocular pressure (IOP) in these often
difficult to manage eyes. However, controversy exists concerning their use in
uveitic patients due to the theoretically higher risk of anterior uveitis,
development of cystoid macular edema (CME), and reactivation of herpes simplex
keratitis (HSK). There is little evidence that PGA disrupt the blood-aqueous
barrier and only anecdotal evidence suggesting an increased risk of these rare
findings. PGA may be used in uveitic glaucoma when other topical treatments have 
not lowered IOP to the patient's target range.

DOI: 10.3109/08820538.2011.588650 
PMID: 21958176  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Saudi J Ophthalmol. 2011 Oct;25(4):337-45. doi: 10.1016/j.sjopt.2011.07.004. Epub
2011 Jul 30.

Primary lens extraction for glaucoma management: A review article.

Eid TM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tanta University, Egypt.

Recently, primary lens extraction alone gained more acceptance as an alternative 
surgical approach for glaucoma management. This view was supported by the
advances in phacoemulsification and intraocular lenses with greater safety and
visual recovery, in addition to a substantial reduction of intraocular pressure
and deepening of the anterior chamber and filtration angle. The decrease in IOP
after cataract surgery in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is mild, less
predictable, related to baseline levels, and may return to presurgical values
after an initial period of reduction. Therefore, the IOP-lowering effect of
primary cataract extraction in POAG may be insufficient to achieve adequate IOP
control. The IOP reduction after lens extraction is consistently greater in eyes 
with primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) than in eyes with POAG. Primary lens
extraction in acute PACG eliminates, or at least, reduces the risk of recurrence 
of acute attacks and deepens the anterior chamber and widens the angle which
reduces the risk of progression of peripheral anterior synechiae and development 
of chronic PACG. Primary lens extraction may be more preferable to glaucoma
incisional surgery in mild to moderate PACG eyes with appositional angle closure.
The decision to do lens extraction as a primary treatment for glaucoma should be 
individualized based upon several factors other than the effect on IOP. These
factors include patients' characteristics, surgeons' skills and preferences,
status of glaucoma control, type of cataract and intraocular lens implanted, and 
potential harm of laser treatment for late capsular opacification and fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjopt.2011.07.004 
PMCID: PMC3729315
PMID: 23960947  [PubMed]


283. Eye Sci. 2011 Sep;26(3):121-31. doi: 10.3969/j.issn.1000-4432.2011.03.001.

Role of phacoemulsification in angle closure glaucoma.

Moghimi S(1), Lin S.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, Los Angeles Medical School, Los Angeles, CA , USA.

Cataract or clear Lens extraction has been suggested as a treatment option for
different spectrums of primary angle closure diseases. It might reduce the risk
of progression of angle closure and/or glaucoma by helping to open the angle and 
control the intraocular pressure (IOP). Conventionally, medically uncontrolled
primary angle closure glaucoma was treated with trabeculectomy or
phacotrabeculectomy and acute primary angle closure was treated with laser
peripheral iridotomy. However, recent randomized controlled trials have
demonstrated greater promise of phacoemulsification cataract surgery alone for
control of the IOP. In this report we review the current literature to evaluate
the impact of cataract surgery upon preventing and controlling primary angle
closure diseases.

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1000-4432.2011.03.001 
PMID: 21913342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Aust J Prim Health. 2011;17(3):233-9. doi: 10.1071/PY10042.

Risk factors for glaucoma: what do they really mean?

Worley A(1), Grimmer-Somers K.

Author information: 
(1)International Centre for Allied Health Evidence, University of South
Australia, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia.

Glaucoma is an insidious eye disease, potentially putting 4% of older Australians
at risk of blindness, unless detected sufficiently early for initiation of
effective treatment. This paper reports on the strengths of evidence and glaucoma
risk factors that can be identified by primary health care providers from a
patient's history. A comprehensive search of peer-reviewed databases identified
relevant secondary evidence published between 2002 and 2007. Risk factors that
could be determined from a patient's history were identified. A novel glaucoma
risk factor reference guide was constructed according to evidence strength and
level of concern regarding risk of developing glaucoma. The evidence is strong
and consistent regarding the risk of developing glaucoma, and elevated
intraocular pressure, advancing age, non-Caucasian ethnicity and family history
of glaucoma. There is moderate evidence of association with glaucoma, and
migraine, eye injury, myopia and long-term use of corticosteroids. There is
conflicting evidence for living in a rural location, high blood pressure,
diabetes and smoking. Early detection of people at risk of developing glaucoma
can be initiated using our risk factor guide coupled with a comprehensive patient
history. Timely future assessment and subsequent management strategies for
at-risk individuals can then be effectively and efficiently actioned.

DOI: 10.1071/PY10042 
PMID: 21896259  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2012 Feb;26(1):86-117. doi:
10.1111/j.1472-8206.2011.00969.x. Epub 2011 Aug 24.

Biomarkers and special features of oxidative stress in the anterior segment of
the eye linked to lens cataract and the trabecular meshwork injury in primary
open-angle glaucoma: challenges of dual combination therapy with
N-acetylcarnosine lubricant eye drops and oral formulation of nonhydrolyzed
carnosine.

Babizhayev MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Innovative Vision Products, Inc., 3511 Silverside Road, New Castle, DE 19810, 
USA. markbabizhayev@mail.ru

The implication of oxidative stress associated with increased oxidant production 
in mammalian and human cells characterized by the release of free radicals,
resulting in cellular degeneration, is involved in many ocular diseases, such as 
age-related macular degeneration, retinopathy of prematurity, retinal light
damage, primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and cataract. Cataract is the leading
cause of blindness, accounting for 50% of blindness worldwide. Glaucoma, the
leading cause of irreversible blindness, is considered as a progressive optic
neuropathy often caused by elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) consequent to
abnormally high resistance to aqueous humor (AH) drainage via the trabecular
meshwork (TM) and Schlemm's canal. Morphological and biochemical analyses of the 
TM of patients with POAG revealed the loss of cells, increased accumulation of
extracellular matrix proteins (ECM), changes in the cytoskeleton, cellular
senescence, and the process of subclinical inflammation. The TM is the target
tissue of glaucoma in the anterior chamber, and the development and progression
of glaucoma are accompanied by the accumulation of oxidative damage in this
tissue. The separate studies were conducted to comparatively evaluate the
sensitivity to oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation (LPO) of anterior chamber 
tissues including TM. Accumulation of the primary, secondary, and end products of
LPO (diene and triene conjugates, Schiff's bases) was noted in the studied
extracts. Significant differences in the levels of all mentioned LPO products in 
comparison with the control were observed. The data may be considered as an
evidence of LPO participation in the destruction of the trabecule and Schlemm's
canal in POAG. Treatment of TM cells with oxidative stress induced POAG-typical
changes such as ECM accumulation, cell death, disarrangement of the cytoskeleton,
advanced senescence, and the release of inflammatory markers. By pretreatment
with antioxidants, prostaglandin analogs, beta-blockers, or local carbonic
anhydrase inhibitors, these effects were markedly reduced. Oxidative stress can
induce characteristic glaucomatous TM changes, and these oxidative stress-induced
TM changes can be minimized by the use of antioxidants and IOP-lowering
substances. It is tempting to speculate that the prevention of oxidative stress
exposure to the TM may help to reduce the progression of POAG. The author's
laboratory has developed and patented the dual combination therapy with
N-acetylcarnosine lubricant eye drops and oral formulation of nonhydrolyzed
carnosine in ripe cataracts and POAG. The specific regimen for the treatment in
each stage of age-related ophthalmic disease has been taken up. In the treatment 
of POAG, this dual therapy can be combined with conventional antiglaucoma therapy
with beta-blocking and/or adrenergic agonist medicines providing the significant 
IOP-lowering effect and significant increase in outflow facility. The developed
therapy is a prominent management care of the glaucomatous neurodegeneration.

© 2011 The Author Fundamental and Clinical Pharmacology © 2011 Société Française 
de Pharmacologie et de Thérapeutique.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-8206.2011.00969.x 
PMID: 21883446  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Curr Med Res Opin. 2011 Oct;27(10):1949-58. doi: 10.1185/03007995.2011.613923.
Epub 2011 Aug 31.

Balancing efficacy and tolerability of prostaglandin analogues and
prostaglandin-timolol fixed combinations in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Aptel F(1), Denis P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Edouard Herriot Hospital, Lyon 1 University,
France. aptel_florent@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Lowering intraocular pressure (IOP) is currently the only therapeutic
approach that preserves visual function in primary open-angle glaucoma. In making
treatment decisions for first- and second-line therapy, the clinician needs to
provide an appropriate balance of efficacy and tolerability. Prostaglandin
analogues (PGAs) are frequently used as first-line monotherapy, because of their 
efficacy and low risk of systemic side effects. Similarly, PGA-based fixed
combinations are frequently used in patients who progress or fail to achieve the 
target IOP.
SCOPE: We have reviewed the literature on the management of primary open-angle
glaucoma with PGAs, both as monotherapies and in fixed combinations.
FINDINGS: In the clinical trial and meta-analysis data identified, bimatoprost
0.03% seems to be associated with a greater overall ability to lower IOP compared
with latanoprost, travoprost or tafluprost, at the cost of a slightly higher
incidence of conjunctival hyperaemia. Studies indicate that patients' adherence
to treatment is generally better with PGAs than with many other monotherapies. In
patients requiring more than one IOP-lowering agent, fixed combination treatments
may provide improved adherence and tolerability benefits compared with
concomitant use of individual treatments. Bimatoprost/timolol fixed combination
appears to be slightly more efficacious than latanoprost/timolol or
travoprost/timolol, and tolerability differences between the fixed combinations
appear to be slight, probably because the addition of timolol to the PGA
component lessens the associated hyperaemia. Surveys on EU physician attitudes
appear largely in line with these clinical data.
CONCLUSION: An appropriate balance between efficacy and tolerability ensures
optimum IOP lowering and reduces the risk of non-adherence. PGAs largely fulfil
this need as monotherapies and as components of combinations.

DOI: 10.1185/03007995.2011.613923 
PMID: 21878000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Exp Eye Res. 2011 Oct;93(4):331-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2011.08.007. Epub 2011 Aug
18.

Molecular genetics in glaucoma.

Liu Y(1), Allingham RR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Genetics, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

Glaucoma is a family of diseases whose pathology is defined by the progressive
loss of retinal ganglion cells. Clinically, glaucoma presents as a distinctive
optic neuropathy with associated visual field loss. Primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG), chronic angle-closure glaucoma (ACG), and exfoliation glaucoma (XFG) are 
the most prevalent forms of glaucoma globally and are the most common causes of
glaucoma-related blindness worldwide. A host of genetic and environmental factors
contribute to glaucoma phenotypes. This review examines the current status of
genetic investigations of POAG, ACG, XFG, including the less common forms of
glaucoma primary congenital glaucoma (PCG), the developmental glaucomas, and
pigment dispersion glaucoma.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2011.08.007 
PMCID: PMC4293633
PMID: 21871452  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Exp Eye Res. 2011 Nov;93(5):572-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2011.07.009. Epub 2011 Aug
16.

Overview of Cytochrome P450 1B1 gene mutations in patients with primary
congenital glaucoma.

Li N(1), Zhou Y, Du L, Wei M, Chen X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 37 Guo
Xue Rd, Chengdu 610041, Sichuan Province, China.

The objective of this study was to investigate the distribution of mutations in
the Cytochrome P450 1B1 gene (CYP1B1) in patients with primary congenital
glaucoma (PCG) among different populations. All identifiable original studies on 
CYP1B1 gene mutations of patients with PCG were reviewed. Finally, DNA mutations 
within the CYP1B1 gene were identified in 542 patients with PCG according to 52
scientific articles and 147 distinct mutations were found. The 3987G>A (G61E)
missense mutation is a founder mutation in Middle Eastern population, responsible
for 45.52% of CYP1B1 mutations. In Gypsies, missense mutation 7996G>A (E387K)
seems to be a founder mutation, accounting for 79.63% of CYP1B1 mutations. It
seems that there is no founder mutation in Asian or Caucasian population, but
also accumulates in some spots. Mutations 7927G>A (V364M), 7990C>T (L385F) and
8006G>A (R390H) are common in Asian population. In Caucasians, 7940G>A (R368H),
8037dup10, 8006G>A (R390H), 7901del13, 4340delG, 3987G>A (G61E), 7996G>A (E387K),
4490G>A (E229K) and 8005C>T/A (R390C/S) are common mutations. The findings
suggest that ethnic differences and the geographical distribution of PCG may be
associated with different CYP1B1 mutation patterns. Such information may be
useful in developing strategies for reliable clinical genetic testing of patients
with PCG and their families.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2011.07.009 
PMID: 21854771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2011;7:283-90. doi: 10.2147/TCRM.S20495. Epub 2011 Jul 12.

Demonstration of an online tool to assist managed care formulary evidence-based
decision making: meta-analysis of topical prostaglandin analog efficacy.

Kymes SM(1), Burk C, Feinman T, Williams JM, Hollander DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this paper was to demonstrate the use of an online
service for conducting a systematic review and meta-analysis of the efficacy of
topical prostaglandin analogs in reducing intraocular pressure (IOP) in glaucoma 
and ocular hypertension.
METHODS: An online service provider (Doctor Evidence) reviewed and extracted data
from the peer-reviewed literature through September 2009. Randomized controlled
studies of at least three months' duration assessing at least two prostaglandin
analogs in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension, or
normal-tension glaucoma were included. The primary endpoint was mean IOP. Summary
estimates were created using random-effects models. The Q Chi-square test was
used to assess statistical heterogeneity.
RESULTS: Sixteen studies satisfied the inclusion criteria and were analyzed. On
average, greater IOP-lowering was seen with bimatoprost relative to latanoprost
(1 mmHg, P = 0.025) and travoprost (0.8 mmHg, P = 0.033) based on mean IOP after 
12-26 weeks of treatment. No statistical difference was observed in IOP-lowering 
between latanoprost and travoprost (P = 0.841). Findings were similar to
previously published meta-analyses of topical prostaglandin analogs.
CONCLUSION: Systematic reviews relying on meta-analytic techniques to create
summary statistics are considered to be the "gold standard" for synthesizing
evidence to support clinical decision-making. However, the process is
time-consuming, labor-intensive, and outside the capability of most formulary
managers. We have demonstrated the effectiveness of a commercial service that
facilitates the process of conducting such reviews.

DOI: 10.2147/TCRM.S20495 
PMCID: PMC3150474
PMID: 21845051  [PubMed]


290. Clin Ophthalmol. 2011;5:887-90. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S22485. Epub 2011 Jun 28.

Alzheimer's disease and primary open-angle glaucoma: is there a connection?

Tsolaki F(1), Gogaki E, Tiganita S, Skatharoudi C, Lopatatzidi C, Topouzis F,
Tsolaki M.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Hippokrateion General Hospital, Thessaloniki,
Greece;

AIM: To present, through a thorough literature research, current and older
scientific efforts to investigate the putative association between Alzheimer's
disease (AD) and glaucoma, especially primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: We included in our review article epidemiological, experimental and
clinical laboratory studies.
RESULTS: While many authors support the existence of a strong correlation between
the AD and POAG, based on epidemiological, genetic and immunohistochemical data, 
others present contradictory results, leaving the issue unresolved.
CONCLUSION: Further research, probably targeted towards genetic parameters and
based on large, multicenter studies has yet to be conducted. It is the authors'
opinion however, that the existing data already justify the need for at least
some degree of elevated clinical alertness for the occurrence of AD in patients
with glaucoma and of glaucoma in patients with AD.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S22485 
PMCID: PMC3133006
PMID: 21760717  [PubMed]


291. Ophthalmic Res. 2012;47(2):66-80. doi: 10.1159/000328630. Epub 2011 Jul 13.

Steroid-induced iatrogenic glaucoma.

Razeghinejad MR(1), Katz LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz,
Iran.

Steroids in susceptible individuals can cause a clinical condition similar to
primary open-angle glaucoma. Five percent of the population are high steroid
responders and develop an intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation of more than 15 mm
Hg above baseline. IOP elevation may occur as early as 1 day to as late as 12
weeks after intravitreal triamcinolone in 20-65% of patients. On average, 75% of 
eyes with steroid implants require IOP-lowering therapy at some point within 3
years of follow-up. The exact mechanism of steroid-induced glaucoma is not
totally understood, but decreased trabecular meshwork outflow is regarded as the 
main cause of IOP elevation. High-risk patients who receive steroids should be
monitored closely and if they develop elevated IOP, steroids with lower potency
or steroid-sparing agents should be used. The IOP usually returns to normal
within 2-4 weeks after stopping the steroid. About 1-5% of patients do not
respond to medical therapy and need surgery. Trabeculectomy, trabeculotomy, shunt
surgery, and cyclodestructive procedures are among the methods employed. Removal 
of residual sub-Tenon or intravitreal steroids may help hasten the resolution of 
the steroid response. Early results with anecortave acetate, an analog of
cortisol acetate with antiangiogenic activity, in controlling IOP have been
promising.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000328630 
PMID: 21757964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;39(8):760-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02556.x.
Epub 2011 Apr 27.

Telemedicine model to prevent blindness from familial glaucoma.

Staffieri SE(1), Ruddle JB, Kearns LS, Barbour JM, Edwards TL, Paul P, Mackey DA.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, Department of
Ophthalmology, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria.

BACKGROUND: To develop, implement and evaluate a telemedicine model to reduce
glaucoma blindness through the early detection of undiagnosed glaucoma in
high-risk individuals.
DESIGN: Prospective study, private ophthalmology practice and public outpatient
clinics in Tasmania.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred and thirty-three individuals with primary open-angle
glaucoma were invited to enrol their first-degree relatives (FDRs) to undergo an 
eye examination. Within the study period, 211 FDRs were available for
examination.
METHODS: A registered nurse was trained to perform the required assessments.
Clinical data were entered into a purpose-built database, converted to a portable
document format and graded offsite by an ophthalmologist to determine the
presence, absence or risk of developing glaucoma. Participants were notified of
the grading result and recommendations for review.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence of undiagnosed glaucoma in a high-risk
population.
RESULTS: Previously undiagnosed glaucoma was identified in 5% of those examined. 
For every 19 participants screened, one new case of previously undiagnosed case
of glaucoma was identified. Additionally 15% of participants showed suspicious
signs of glaucoma, and 6% had ocular hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: A telemedicine model is an efficient method for screening, grading
and notifying participants of examination results. Nurses can be adequately
trained to undertake the initial screening examinations, with grading of the
results performed offsite by a suitably qualified ophthalmologist. Targeted
screening for glaucoma increases the yield of identifying individuals with
undiagnosed glaucoma or those at greatest risk. Cost efficiencies for this model 
of glaucoma screening should be further explored and implemented to prevent
blindness from familial glaucoma.

© 2011 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2011 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02556.x 
PMID: 21749595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2011 Sep;22(5):347-55. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32834922d2.

Genetics of primary glaucoma.

Khan AO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Ophthalmology, King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. arif.khan@mssm.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To provide an overview of the genetics of the primary
open-angle glaucomas with particular attention to congenital, infantile, and
juvenile forms.
RECENT FINDINGS: Mutations in CYP1B1, in addition to being the most common
identifiable cause of autosomal recessive primary congenital/infantile glaucoma, 
can infrequently underlie juvenile and even primary adult-onset open-angle
glaucoma, particularly in certain consanguineous populations. In 2009, patients
diagnosed with congenital/infantile glaucoma were found to have recessive
mutations in a second gene, LTBP2, with a phenotypic spectrum that includes
primary megalocornea, spherophakia with ectopia lentis, and lens-related
glaucoma. The most common identifiable cause of primary juvenile open-angle
glaucoma across most populations remains heterozygous (autosomal dominant) MYOC
mutation, underlying up to one-third of cases and possibly sometimes involved in 
earlier and later onset glaucomas Although primary adult-onset open-angle
glaucoma usually does not follow simple Mendelian genetics and is etiologically
complex, genome-wide association studies are uncovering genetic susceptibility
factors. In some cases, primary adult-onset open-angle glaucoma can be caused by 
heterozygous mutation in MYOC, OPTN, or WDR36. In addition, in 2009, heterozygous
NTF4 mutation was associated with the phenotype in a small percentage of patients
from a German cohort.
SUMMARY: Seemingly unaffected siblings of children with CYP1B1-related primary
congenital/infantile glaucoma should undergo genetic testing because of variable 
expressivity for the phenotype; such testing should also be considered for other 
asymptomatic relatives, especially in consanguineous families. In western
populations, dominant MYOC mutation remains a common cause of primary open-angle 
juvenile glaucoma and infrequently can be implicated in congenital/infantile or
adult-onset forms; identified families should undergo genetic counseling. Primary
adult-onset open-angle glaucoma rarely follows simple Mendelian genetics, but
genomic studies in different populations are revealing potential genetic risk
factors for the phenotype.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32834922d2 
PMID: 21730848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Stat Med. 2011 Sep 10;30(20):2511-35. doi: 10.1002/sim.4284. Epub 2011 Jul 5.

Mixed treatment comparison of repeated measurements of a continuous endpoint: an 
example using topical treatments for primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
hypertension.

Dakin HA(1), Welton NJ, Ades AE, Collins S, Orme M, Kelly S.

Author information: 
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, UK.
helen.dakin@dph.ox.ac.uk.

Mixed treatment comparison (MTC) meta-analyses estimate relative treatment
effects from networks of evidence while preserving randomisation. We extend the
MTC framework to allow for repeated measurements of a continuous endpoint that
varies over time. We used, as a case study, a systematic review and meta-analysis
of intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements from randomised controlled trials
evaluating topical ocular hypotensives in primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular
hypertension because IOP varies over the day and over the treatment course, and
repeated measurements are frequently reported. We adopted models for conducting
MTC in WinBUGS (The BUGS Project, Cambridge, UK) to allow for repeated IOP
measurements and to impute missing standard deviations of the raw data using the 
predictive distribution from observations with standard deviations. A flexible
model with an unconstrained baseline for IOP variations over time and
time-invariant random treatment effects fitted the data well. We also adopted
repeated measures models to allow for class effects; assuming treatment effects
to be exchangeable within classes slightly improved model fit but could bias
estimated treatment effects if exchangeability assumptions were not valid. We
enabled all timepoints to be included in the analysis, allowing for repeated
measures to increase precision around treatment effects and avoid bias associated
with selecting timepoints for meta-analysis.The methods we developed for
modelling repeated measures and allowing for missing data may be adapted for use 
in other MTC meta-analyses.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4284 
PMID: 21728183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Med Sci Monit. 2011 Jul;17(7):RA155-63.

Systematic overview of the efficacy of nonpenetrating glaucoma surgery in the
treatment of open angle glaucoma.

Cheng JW(1), Cheng SW, Cai JP, Li Y, Wei RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital, Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering effects achieved 
by nonpenetrating glaucoma surgery (NPGS) and its modifications in patients with 
open angle glaucoma.
MATERIAL/METHODS: Randomized controlled trials evaluating patients with primary
and secondary open angle glaucoma treated with NPGS were identified through
systematic searches. The main outcome measures were the percentage IOP reduction 
and the complete success rate. Complete success was defined as target endpoint
IOP (usually less than 21 mm Hg) without medications. The pooled estimates were
calculated using the random effects model.
RESULTS: Both deep sclerectomy (DS) and viscocanalostomy (VCO) were less
effective than trabeculectomy (TE) in lowering IOP, with the percentage IOP
reductions at 2 years being 35.2% for DS, 30.2% for VCO, and 45.6% for TE.
Intraoperative use of implants and mitomycin C (MMC) increased IOP-lowering
effects of DS, with IOP reductions at 2 years of 41.1% and 41.7%, respectively.
The complete success rates at 4 years were 35.4% for DS, and 22.7% for VCO, lower
than that of TE (47.6%). The complete success rates of DS with implants and MMC
of 64.6% and 52.1%, respectively, at 4 years, were greater than that of primary
DS. NPGS caused major complications in fewer patients than did TE.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary deep sclerectomy and primary viscocanalostomy, which can
significantly lower IOP, were associated with fewer complications than was TE.
However, the IOP-lowering effects of both NPGS seem to be lower than that of
primary TE. The efficacy of DS can be improved with the intraoperative use of
implants and MMC.


PMCID: PMC3539577
PMID: 21709645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Molecules. 2011 Jun 27;16(7):5402-21. doi: 10.3390/molecules16075402.

Keeping an eye on myocilin: a complex molecule associated with primary open-angle
glaucoma susceptibility.

Menaa F(1), Braghini CA, Vasconcellos JP, Menaa B, Costa VP, Figueiredo ES, Melo 
MB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Human Genetics, Center for Molecular Biology and Genetic
Engineering (CBMEG), University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas-SP 13083-875,
Brazil. fmenaa@cbmeg.unicamp.br

MYOC encodes a secretary glycoprotein of 504 amino acids named myocilin. MYOC is 
the first gene to be linked to juvenile open-angle glaucoma (JOAG) and some forms
of adult-onset primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The gene was identified as an 
up-regulated molecule in cultured trabecular meshwork (TM) cells after treatment 
with dexamethasone and was originally referred to as trabecular
meshwork-inducible glucocorticoid response (TIGR). Elevated intraocular pressure 
(IOP), due to decreased aqueous outflow, is the strongest known risk factor for
POAG. Increasing evidence showed that the modulation of the wild-type (wt)
myocilin protein expression is not causative of glaucoma while some misfolded and
self-assembly aggregates of mutated myocilin may be associated with POAG in
related or unrelated populations. The etiology of the disease remains unclear.
Consequently, a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying POAG 
is required to obtain early diagnosis, avoid potential disease progression, and
develop new therapeutic strategies. In the present study, we review and discuss
the most relevant studies regarding structural characterizations, expressions,
molecular interactions, putative functions of MYOC gene and/or its corresponding 
protein in POAG etiology.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules16075402 
PMID: 21709622  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


297. J Glaucoma. 2012 Sep;21(7):433-49. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31821dac2a.

Long-term medical management of primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
hypertension in the UK: optimizing cost-effectiveness and clinic resources by
minimizing therapy switches.

Orme M(1), Collins S, Loftus J.

Author information: 
(1)Abacus International, Bicester, Oxfordshire, UK.

PURPOSE: The objective was to assess the long-term economic consequences of the
medical management of glaucoma in the UK.
METHODS: The economic evaluation was conducted using the results from a 10-year
Markov model based around 3 key triggers for a switch in medical therapy for
glaucoma, namely: lack of tolerance (using hyperemia as a proxy); intraocular
pressure (IOP) not meeting treatment benchmark; and glaucoma progression.
Clinical data from a comprehensive systematic literature review and meta-analysis
were used. Direct costs associated with glaucoma treatment are considered (at
2008/9 prices) from the perspective of the UK NHS as payer (outpatient/secondary 
care setting). Using this model, the economic consequences of 3
prostaglandin-based treatment sequences were compared.
RESULTS: Drug acquisition costs account for around 8% to 13% of the total cost of
glaucoma and, if ophthalmologist visits are included, amount to approximately
£0.80 to £0.90 per day of medical therapy. The total long-term costs of all
prostaglandin strategies are similar because of a shift in resources: increased
drug costs are offset by fewer clinic visits to instigate treatment switches, and
by avoiding surgery or costs associated with managing low vision. Under the
latanoprost-based strategy, patients would have longer intervals between the need
to switch therapies, which is largely due to a reduction in hyperemia, seen as a 
proxy for tolerance. This leads to a delay in glaucoma progression of 12 to 13
months. For every 1000 clinic appointments, 719 patients can be managed for 1
year with a latanoprost-based strategy compared with 586 or 568 with a
bimatoprost or travoprost-based strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Drug acquisition costs are not a key driver of the total cost of
glaucoma management and the cost of medical therapy is offset by avoiding the
cost of managing low vision. Economic models of glaucoma should include the
long-term consequences of treatment as these will affect cost-effectiveness. This
analysis supports the hypothesis that the economic and clinical benefits can be
optimized by minimizing therapy switches.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31821dac2a 
PMID: 21677590  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


298. J Glaucoma. 2012 Aug;21(6):408-14. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31822089b5.

The effect of learning curve on the surgical outcome of viscocanalostomy.

Stangos AN(1), Mavropoulos A, Leuenberger PM, Sunaric-Megevand G.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ophthalmology, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University
Hospitals of Geneva, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the influence of learning curve on the surgical outcome of
viscocanalostomy.
METHODS: Retrospective, interventional study. Chart review of the first
consecutive open-angle glaucoma cases that received viscocanalostomy in 1
institution between July 1996 and June 2000. Overall success was defined as no
visual field deterioration; postoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) ≤20 mm Hg;
and IOP reduction ≥30% compared with baseline values with or without medication. 
When medications were not required, success was defined as complete. Demographic,
procedural, and postoperative data were tabulated and analyzed.
PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURES: overall and complete success rates.
SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: number of glaucoma medications and surgical
complications.
RESULTS: A total of 180 cases were analyzed. Mean follow-up (±SD) was 28.9±5.9
months (range, 12-36 mo). Overall success has significantly improved from 64% to 
91% when comparing the first 45 to the last 45 cases of the series (Mantel-Cox,
P=0.005). Similarly, complete success has significantly improved from 38% to 73% 
(Mantel-Cox, P=0.004). The mean number of glaucoma medication (±SD) significantly
decreased from 2.58±0.94 before surgery to 0.53±0.79 after surgery (Wilcoxon,
P<0.001). Surgical complications decreased from 16 in the first 45 cases to 10 in
the last 45 cases without reaching statistical significance (Pearson χ, P=0.315).
CONCLUSIONS: Viscocanalostomy appears to safely reduce IOP in cases with
medically uncontrolled open-angle glaucoma. Mastering viscocanalostomy procedure 
is achievable after the first 40 cases.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31822089b5 
PMID: 21673593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Arch Ophthalmol. 2011 Jun;129(6):699-702. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.108.

Intraocular pressure response to selective laser trabeculoplasty in the first
treated eye vs the fellow eye.

Shazly TA(1), Latina MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Assiut University Hospital, Assiut, Egypt.

OBJECTIVE: To determine if the intraocular pressure (IOP) response to selective
laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) in one eye predicts long-term response to SLT in the 
fellow eye.
METHODS: A retrospective medical record review was performed of patients who
underwent SLT as primary treatment in both eyes and who completed at least 30
months of follow-up visits. Pearson product moment correlation analysis was
performed to determine correlations between the 3-month percentage of IOP
reduction in the first treated eye and long-term percentages of IOP reduction in 
the fellow eye.
RESULTS: Medical records of 80 eyes in 40 patients were reviewed. In patients
with ocular hypertension, the 3-month percentage of IOP reduction in the first
treated eye correlated strongly with long-term percentages of IOP reduction in
the fellow eye (r > 0.652). In patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, the
3-month percentage of IOP reduction in the first treated eye correlated
moderately with percentages of IOP reduction in the fellow eye up to 9 months
(r > 0.367).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with ocular hypertension, the 3-month percentage of IOP 
reduction in the first treated eye in response to SLT was predictive of response 
in the fellow eye up to 30 months. In patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, 
the 3-month percentage of IOP reduction in the first treated eye in response to
SLT was predictive of response in the fellow eye up to 9 months.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.108 
PMID: 21670336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


300. BMC Ophthalmol. 2011 Jun 13;11:13. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-11-13.

A multicenter, retrospective chart review study comparing index therapy change
rates in open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension patients newly treated with
latanoprost or travoprost-Z monotherapy.

Fain JM(1), Kotak S, Mardekian J, Bacharach J, Edward DP, Rauchman S, Brevetti T,
Fox JL, Lovelace C.

Author information: 
(1)Pfizer Ophthalmics, Chicago, IL, USA. joel.m.fain@pfizer.com

BACKGROUND: Because latanoprost and the original formulation of travoprost that
included benzalkonium chloride (BAK) have been shown to be similar with regard to
tolerability, we compared initial topical intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering
medication change rates in patients newly treated with latanoprost or
travoprost-Z monotherapy.
METHODS: At 14 clinical practice sites, medical records were abstracted for
patients with a diagnosis of open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension and who
were ≥40 years of age, had a baseline and at least one follow-up visit, and had
no prior history of ocular prostaglandin use. Data regarding demographics,
ocular/systemic medical histories, clinical variables, therapy initiations and
reasons for changes, adverse events, and resource utilization were recorded from 
randomly chosen eligible charts. Primary outcomes were rates of and reasons for
changing from the initial therapy within six months and across the full study
period (1000 days).
RESULTS: Data from 900 medical charts (latanoprost, 632; travoprost-Z, 268) were 
included. For both cohorts, average follow-up was >1 year. Cohorts were similar
with regard to age (median ~67 years), gender distribution (>50% female), and
diagnosis (~80% with open-angle glaucoma). Within six months, rates of index
therapy change for latanoprost versus travoprost-Z were 21.2% (134/632) and 28.7%
(77/268), respectively (p = 0.0148); across the full study period, rates were
34.5% (218/632) and 45.2% (121/268), respectively (p = 0.0026). Among those who
changed their index therapy, insufficient IOP control was the most commonly
reported reason followed by adverse events; hyperemia was the most commonly
reported adverse event at index therapy change.
CONCLUSIONS: In this "real world" study of changes in therapy in patients
prescribed initial monotherapy with latanoprost with BAK or travoprost-Z with
SofZia, medication changes were common in both treatment groups but statistically
significantly more frequent with travoprost-Z.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-11-13 
PMCID: PMC3136403
PMID: 21668980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 May-Jun;40(4):400-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02617.x. Epub 2011 Dec 21.

There is insufficient evidence to recommend lens extraction as a treatment for
primary open-angle glaucoma: an evidence-based perspective.

Walland MJ(1), Parikh RS, Thomas R.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Investigation and Research Unit, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear
Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. mwalland@unimelb.edu.au

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2012 Aug;40(6):647-8; author reply 648-9.

Cataract extraction in primary open-angle glaucoma has not been thought to
provide a clinically useful or predictable decrease in IOP. This concept has now 
been challenged, with the opposite belief being promulgated: namely, that lens
exchange should be considered as treatment for glaucoma. This revelation could
bring a significant change in the glaucoma treatment paradigm. There are no
randomised controlled trials to guide the role of lens extraction in primary
open-angle glaucoma. The available evidence suggests at most a modest reduction
in IOP from cataract extraction - greater in the presence of pseudoexfoliation - 
which is likely to be of marginal benefit, and only in milder forms of open-angle
glaucoma. There is currently no evidence of any quality to suggest that lens
extraction routinely represents a clinically useful treatment for primary
open-angle glaucoma.

© 2011 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2011 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02617.x 
PMID: 21668783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


302. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2011 Aug;27(4):369-71. doi: 10.1089/jop.2011.0028. Epub
2011 Jun 11.

Comparison of intraocular pressure-lowering effect of every night versus every
other night dosing of bimatoprost 0.03%.

Shazly TA(1), Latina MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary/Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA 01867, USA. shazlyt@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To compare intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction profiles of bimatoprost 
0.03% administered every other night (QOD-HS) compared with every night (QHS) in 
patients with primary open angle glaucoma and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of 68 eyes of 45 consecutive patients who
were switched from QHS to QOD-HS bimatoprost due to intolerable conjunctival
hyperemia between May 2005 and May 2008. IOP in the morning (AM) and afternoon
(PM) of the next day after administration (day 1) and the day after (day 2) on
QOD-HS regimen was compared with IOP in the AM and PM when they were on QHS
regimen, 4-6 weeks after switching to QOD-HS.
RESULTS: Mean IOPs on QHS bimatoprost were 15.9±3.4 mm Hg in the AM and
15.5±2.7 mm Hg in the PM, whereas mean IOPs on QOD-HS were 14±2 mm Hg (AM) and
14.2±2.5 mm Hg (PM) on day 1, and 14.7±2.6 mm Hg (AM) and 14.4±2.4 mm Hg (PM) on 
day 2 after administration. Differences between IOP fluctuation on QHS and QOD-HS
days 1 and 2, respectively, were not significant (P=0.87 and 0.94).
CONCLUSION: Every other night dosing of bimatoprost was effective in controlling 
IOP in this select group of patients with primary open angle glaucoma and
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma who had troublesome side effects on bimatoprost 0.03% 
QHS regimen, and may be considered as an alternative to every day treatment.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2011.0028 
PMID: 21663517  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


303. BMJ Clin Evid. 2011 Jun 9;2011. pii: 0703.

Glaucoma.

Shah R(1), Wormald RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Glaucoma is characterised by progressive optic neuropathy and
peripheral visual field loss. It affects 1% to 2% of white people aged over 40
years and accounts for 8% of new blind registrations in the UK. The main risk
factor for glaucoma is raised intraocular pressure, but 40% of people with
glaucoma have normal intraocular pressure and only 10% of people with raised
intraocular pressure are at risk of optic-nerve damage. Glaucoma is more
prevalent, presents earlier, and is more difficult to control in black people
than in white populations.
METHODS AND OUTCOMES: We conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the
following clinical questions: What are the effects of treatments for established 
primary open-angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension, or both? What are the effects
of lowering intraocular pressure in people with normal-tension glaucoma? What are
the effects of treatment for acute angle-closure glaucoma? We searched: Medline, 
Embase, The Cochrane Library, and other important databases up to May 2010
(Clinical Evidence reviews are updated periodically; please check our website for
the most up-to-date version of this review). We included harms alerts from
relevant organisations such as the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the 
UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).
RESULTS: We found 12 systematic reviews, RCTs, or observational studies that met 
our inclusion criteria. We performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of
evidence for interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: In this systematic review we present information relating to the
effectiveness and safety of the following interventions: laser trabeculoplasty
(alone or plus topical medical treatment), topical medical treatments, and
surgical trabeculectomy.


PMCID: PMC3275300
PMID: 21658300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


304. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2011 Jun;34(6):392-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2011.03.009. Epub 2011
Jun 1.

[Is myopia a risk factor for glaucoma?].

[Article in French]

Detry-Morel M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'ophtalmologie, cliniques universitaires Saint-Luc, 10, avenue
Hippocrate, 1200 Bruxelles, Belgique. Michele.Morel@uclouvain.be

Controversy exists in the literature concerning the role of axial myopia as a
risk factor for primary open-angle glaucoma. Epidemiologic evidence suggests that
moderate and especially high myopia with a refractive error exceeding -6D is a
risk factor for the development and the progression of glaucomatous optic
neuropathy, with a twofold to threefold increased risk of glaucoma compared with 
that of nonmyopic subjects. This risk has been proven to be independent of other 
glaucoma risk factors and intraocular pressure (IOP). Myopic eyes have slightly
although probably not clinically relevant, higher IOPs than emmetropic or
hyperopic eyes. Selection bias could account for some of the reported association
between glaucoma and myopia given that myopic subjects are likely to consult
their ophthalmologist more frequently and glaucoma is underdiagnosed in myopic
patients due to the great variability of their optic disc morphology, especially 
in high myopia, and the difficulty to interpret their visual field. The weakness 
of the fibroglial matrix of the nerve fibers at the optic disc together with the 
structural alterations in the lamina cribrosa and choroid, could contribute to
the high susceptibility of the optic disc to IOP fluctuations and to increasing
the risk of glaucomatous neuropathy, especially in high myopic eyes. Special
attention will be given to patients with mild myopia who present with both
elevated IOP levels and a positive family history. On the other hand, high myopic
subjects should be screened for glaucoma at closer intervals. Moreover, after
appropriate adjustments for deviations in central corneal thickness have been
made, IOP greater than 17 mmHg must already be regarded as critical and
initiation of medical treatment considered.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2011.03.009 
PMID: 21632150  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Sep-Oct;39(7):623-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02530.x. Epub 2011 Jun 9.

Economic impact of primary open-angle glaucoma in Australia.

Dirani M(1), Crowston JG, Taylor PS, Moore PT, Rogers S, Pezzullo ML, Keeffe JE, 
Taylor HR.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne Royal Victorian Eye
& Ear Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria Access Economics Pty Limited, Canberra, ACT, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is the World's leading cause of irreversible blindness, and 
poses serious public health and economic concerns.
DESIGN:   Review.
SAMPLES: Published randomized trials and population-based studies since 1985.
METHODS: We report the economic impact of primary open-angle glaucoma and model
the effect of changes in detection rates and management strategies.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The cost-effectiveness of different interventions to
prevent vision loss from primary open-angle glaucoma was measured in terms of
financial cost (Australian dollars) and disability-adjusted life years.
RESULTS: The prevalence of glaucoma in Australia is expected to increase from
208 000 in 2005 to 379 000 in 2025 because of the aging population. Health system
costs over the same time period are estimated to increase from $AU355 million to 
$AU784 million. Total costs (health system costs, indirect costs and costs of
loss of well-being) will increase from $AU1.9 billion to $AU4.3 billion in
Australia.
CONCLUSION: Primary open-angle glaucoma poses a significant economic burden,
which will increase substantially by 2025. This dynamic model provides a valuable
tool for ongoing policy formulation and determining the economic impact of
interventions to better prevent visual impairment and blindness from glaucoma.

© 2011 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2011 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02530.x 
PMID: 21631669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Jun 3;2(6):164.

Dallas Glaucoma Registry: Preliminary Results.

Kooner KS(1), Joseph A(1), Shar A(1), Marquardt FA(2), AlBdoor M(3), Cho BJ(4),
Whitson JT(1), Aggarwal N(1), Adams-Huet B(5).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
5323 Harry Hines Blvd., Dallas, Texas, USA 75390-9057 and VA North Texas health
care System, 4500 S. Lancaster Road, Dallas, Texas 75216, USA. (2)Departments of 
Ophthalmology University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry Hines
Blvd., Dallas, Texas, USA 75390-9057 and VA North Texas health care System, 4500 
S. Lancaster Road, Dallas, Texas 75216, USA ; Currently at Sao Vicente de Paulo
Hospital, Tres de Maio, Brazil 988 02 540. (3)Departments of Ophthalmology
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd., Dallas, 
Texas, USA 75390-9057 and VA North Texas health care System, 4500 S. Lancaster
Road, Dallas, Texas 75216, USA ; Currently at Department of Ophthalmology, King
Hussein Medical Center, Jordan. (4)Departments of Ophthalmology University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd., Dallas, Texas, USA
75390-9057 and VA North Texas health care System, 4500 S. Lancaster Road, Dallas,
Texas 75216, USA ; Currently at Department of Ophthalmology, Konkuk University
Medical Center, Seoul Korea 143729. (5)Department of Clinical Sciences, Division 
of Biostatistics, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry
Hines Blvd., Dallas, Texas, USA 75390-9057 and VA North Texas health care System,
4500 S. Lancaster Road, Dallas. Texas 75216, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide, yet
there are no large databases where risk factors, current management options and
outcomes may be evaluated. With this concept in mind, Dallas Glaucoma Registry
was established to focus on an ethnically mixed North Texas population.
METHODS: This is a retrospective, chart review of 2,484 patients (4,839 eyes)
with glaucoma from three clinics. Data collected included: age, race, gender,
intraocular pressure, visual acuity, central corneal thickness, cup-to-disk
ratio, extent of visual field damage, glaucoma diagnoses, medical and surgical
therapies.
RESULTS: The most prevalent glaucoma was primary open angle glaucoma accounting
for 44.4% of patients, followed by glaucoma suspect (39.5%), secondary glaucoma
(7.2%), angle closure glaucoma (6.8%), normal tension glaucoma (1.7%), and
childhood glaucoma (0.5%). The mean (SD) age was 68.7 (13.8) and 41.3% were non
Hispanic white, 37.0% were black, 10.4% were Hispanic and 11.3% were of other
ethnic origin. Hispanic representation in glaucoma did not match their numbers in
general population of North Texas.
CONCLUSION: Large numbers of patients in the ongoing Dallas Glaucoma Registry do 
provide adequate data to better understand risk factors, early detection,
improved screening targets, treatment options, outcomes and future studies.

DOI: 10.4172/2155-9570.1000164 
PMCID: PMC4130371
PMID: 25126448  [PubMed]


307. Clin Ophthalmol. 2011;5:667-77. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S15971. Epub 2011 May 20.

Novel ocular antihypertensive compounds in clinical trials.

Chen J(1), Runyan SA, Robinson MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Allergan, Inc., 2525 Dupont Dr., Irvine, CA
92612, USA. chen_june@allergan.com

INTRODUCTION: Glaucoma is a multifactorial disease characterized by progressive
optic nerve injury and visual field defects. Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) 
is the most widely recognized risk factor for the onset and progression of
open-angle glaucoma, and IOP-lowering medications comprise the primary treatment 
strategy. IOP elevation in glaucoma is associated with diminished or obstructed
aqueous humor outflow. Pharmacotherapy reduces IOP by suppressing aqueous inflow 
and/or increasing aqueous outflow.
PURPOSE: This review focuses on novel non-FDA approved ocular antihypertensive
compounds being investigated for IOP reduction in ocular hypertensive and
glaucoma patients in active clinical trials within approximately the past 2
years.
METHODS: The mode of IOP reduction, pharmacology, efficacy, and safety of these
new agents were assessed. Relevant drug efficacy and safety trials were
identified from searches of various scientific literature databases and clinical 
trial registries. Compounds with no specified drug class, insufficient background
information, reformulations, and fixed-combinations of marketed drugs were not
considered.
RESULTS: The investigational agents identified comprise those that act on the
same targets of established drug classes approved by the FDA (ie, prostaglandin
analogs and β-adrenergic blockers) as well as agents belonging to novel drug
classes with unique mechanisms of action. Novel targets and compounds evaluated
in clinical trials include an actin polymerization inhibitor (ie, latrunculin),
Rho-associated protein kinase inhibitors, adenosine receptor analogs, an
angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist, cannabinoid receptor agonists, and a
serotonin receptor antagonist.
CONCLUSION: The clinical value of novel compounds for the treatment of glaucoma
will depend ultimately on demonstrating favorable efficacy and benefit-to-risk
ratios relative to currently approved prostaglandin analogs and β-blockers and/or
having complementary modes of action.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S15971 
PMCID: PMC3104796
PMID: 21629573  [PubMed]


308. Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jul;152(1):10-15.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.03.013. Epub
2011 May 26.

Anti--vascular endothelial growth factor therapy in glaucoma filtration surgery.

Mathew R(1), Barton K.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, United
Kingdom.

PURPOSE: To examine evidence supporting the use of vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) inhibition in controlling wound healing after glaucoma filtration
surgery in primary open-angle glaucoma, to identify the optimum method of
administration, and to clarify the potential position of anti-VEGF monoclonal
antibodies in comparison with 5-fluorouracil and mitomycin C.
DESIGN: Perspective based on an overview of evidence from current peer-reviewed
literature.
METHODS: Analysis of evidence from animal studies, in vitro studies, human
studies, and from the use of anti-VEGF monoclonal antibodies in systemic disease.
RESULTS: There is evidence that glaucoma patients have elevated levels of VEGF in
the aqueous before filtration surgery, that this increases in animals after
filtration surgery, and that both can be suppressed in animals by intraocular
injection of bevacizumab. VEGF not only has a role in angiogenesis, but also has 
a direct action on fibroblast activity that may be modified directly at the time 
of filtration surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence for a role for VEGF in wound healing after
glaucoma filtration surgery. The optimum route of administration and dosing
regimen of anti-VEGF antibodies and their positioning in comparison with
5-fluorouracil and mitomycin C are uncertain. There is some evidence that
subconjunctival injection may produce sustained intraocular tissue levels. There 
is also evidence that bevacizumab may act in synergy with 5-fluorouracil.
Although there are no direct comparative studies, it seems unlikely that
bevacizumab alone will be as effective as mitomycin C, although bleb morphologic 
features may be better.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.03.013 
PMID: 21620367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Eye (Lond). 2011 May;25(5):587-95. doi: 10.1038/eye.2011.97.

Primary open-angle glaucoma genes.

Fingert JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA. john-fingert@uiowa.edu

A substantial fraction of glaucoma has a genetic basis. About 5% of primary open 
angle glaucoma (POAG) is currently attributed to single-gene or Mendelian forms
of glaucoma (ie glaucoma caused by mutations in myocilin or optineurin).
Mutations in these genes have a high likelihood of leading to glaucoma and are
rarely seen in normal subjects. Other cases of POAG have a more complex genetic
basis and are caused by the combined effects of many genetic and environmental
risk factors, each of which do not act alone to cause glaucoma. These factors are
more frequently detected in patients with POAG, but are also commonly observed in
normal subjects. Additional genes that may be important in glaucoma pathogenesis 
have been investigated using quantitative traits approaches. Such studies have
begun to identify genes that control the magnitude of important quantitative
features of glaucoma that may also be important risk factors for POAG, such as
central corneal thickness. Each of these different approaches to study glaucoma
genetics is providing new insights into the pathogenesis of POAG.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2011.97 
PMCID: PMC3171270
PMID: 21562585  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Curr Eye Res. 2011 May;36(5):391-8. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2011.562340.

Ocular surface disease in patients with ocular hypertension and glaucoma.

Stewart WC(1), Stewart JA, Nelson LA.

Author information: 
(1)PRN Pharmaceutical Research Network, LLC, Charleston, South Carolina, USA.
info@prnorb.com

PURPOSE: To review the prevalence, diagnosis, causes, and treatment of ocular
surface disease (OSD) in patients with ocular hypertension or primary open-angle 
glaucoma.
METHODS: A review of the literature pertaining to OSD and glaucoma.
RESULTS: Recent studies indicate that OSD demonstrates an overall prevalence in
glaucoma of 42% (range 20-59%) and is severe in 36% (range 14-66%). Further, the 
prevalence appears to increase with the greater the number of glaucoma drugs
prescribed. Symptoms and signs are non-specific to the anterior surface of the
eye and are thought to result from allergic, toxic, or pro-inflammatory
conditions. However, the specific causes remain incompletely described, but may
result from the benzalkonium chloride (BAK) preservative or occasionally the
ocular hypotensive active molecule itself. Additionally, anterior segment ocular 
diseases might be causative, such as allergy, blepharitis, dry eye, and eyelid
anatomical abnormalities. Treatment may consist of using preservative-free or
non-BAK preserved glaucoma medications. Also, although unproven specifically in
glaucoma patients, treatment of associated diseases of the anterior surface might
reduce signs and symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: OSD is common in treated glaucoma patients causing symptoms and
signs that may impact on a patient's quality of life. Treatment is directed
towards any underlying disease process and the use of preservative-free or
non-BAK-preserved glaucoma preparations.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2011.562340 
PMID: 21501071  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Clin Ophthalmol. 2011;5:377-80. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S17237. Epub 2011 Mar 16.

Effect of prior cataract surgery on the long-term outcome of selective laser
trabeculoplasty.

Shazly TA(1), Latina MA, Dagianis JJ, Chitturi S.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary/Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA, USA;

OBJECTIVE: To determine if pseudophakia affects selective laser trabeculoplasty
(SLT) intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering effect.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed on 94 eyes of 75 consecutive 
patients who underwent SLT as primary treatment for ocular hypertension and
primary open-angle glaucoma between 2002 and 2005 and completed at least 30
months follow up. Patients were excluded if they required additional glaucoma
medications, laser, or ocular surgery during the follow-up period. Patients were 
categorized as phakics or pseudophakics. Independent-samples t-test was performed
to compare the mean percentage of IOP reduction at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 30 months
after SLT between the phakic and pseudophakic groups.
RESULTS: Seventy-six phakic and 18 pseudophakic eyes were included. IOP reduction
in phakic group was 27.4% (2 week), 29.8% (3 months), 27.7% (9 months), 27.4% at 
(12 months) and 27.3% at (30 months). In pseudophakic patients, the mean IOP
reduction was 19.8% (2 weeks), 26.5% (3 months), 23.2% (9 months), 22.5% (12
months), and 25.9% (30 months). An independent-sample t-test compared the
percentage of IOP reduction between the phakic and pseudophakic groups and
revealed higher percentage of IOP reduction in the phakic group at 2 weeks by
7.6% (P = 0.01). P value for difference was 0.34 (3 months), 0.25 (6 months),
0.18 (9 months), 0.12 (12 months), 0.36 (18 months), and 0.7 (30 months) after
SLT.
CONCLUSIONS: SLT response was delayed in pseudophakic compared to phakic
patients, while the long-term effectiveness of SLT is the same in both groups.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S17237 
PMCID: PMC3065583
PMID: 21468349  [PubMed]


312. Drugs Aging. 2011 Apr 1;28(4):267-82. doi: 10.2165/11588830-000000000-00000.

Effects of common topical antiglaucoma medications on the ocular surface, eyelids
and periorbital tissue.

Servat JJ(1), Bernardino CR.

Author information: 
(1)William Beaumont Eye InstituteConsultants in Ophthalmic and Facial Plastic
Surgery, Royal Oak, Michigan, USA. javierservat@gmail.com

Glaucoma affects millions of people around the world. With the baby boom
generation aging, the number of people affected by primary open-angle glaucoma in
the US is expected to reach 3.3 million by 2020, and about half may not know they
have the disease. The treatment of most forms of glaucoma includes the use of
topical agents that enhance aqueous humour outflow, reduce aqueous production, or
both. Topical intraocular pressure-lowering drugs must penetrate across the
tissues of the eye to reach their therapeutic targets. Often, these tissues show 
the first signs and symptoms of drug toxicity and adverse effects. These include 
eyelid dermatitis, malpositions, lacrimal system scarring, ocular discomfort upon
instillation, tear film instability, conjunctival inflammation, subconjunctival
fibrosis, conjunctival epithelium changes, and corneal surface and endothelial
impairment. For these reasons, ophthalmologists should evaluate the risks and
benefits of ophthalmic medications before initiating therapy, identify the
minimum dosages necessary to achieve a therapeutic benefit, and monitor patients 
for local and systemic adverse effects. Adverse events may be reduced by changing
to a different class of topical medication, using corticosteroids, lubricating
the eyes frequently, and reducing exposure to preservatives. This in turn can
lead to higher levels of adherence to antiglaucoma therapy, improved outcomes and
a reduction in the costs associated with long-term glaucoma complications. This
article reviews the ocular adverse effects associated with the various classes of
topical antiglaucoma drugs, with a particular focus on the ocular surface,
eyelids and periorbital tissue.

DOI: 10.2165/11588830-000000000-00000 
PMID: 21428462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2011 Feb;47(2):176-80.

[Progress of anti-glaucoma fixed combination formulation].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang YF(1), Yu MB.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510060, China.

Glaucoma is a common cause of visual impairment and irreversible blindness.
Medication is important in the management of glaucoma, especially in primary
open-angle glaucoma. Combination drug therapy is needed because single drug
therapy can not always control the intraocular pressure effectively to a safe
level in glaucoma patients with higher baseline intraocular pressure. Traditional
unfixed combination therapy of glaucoma may disturb daily life because the
frequency of admitting eye-drops is increased, it is less persistence or
compliance, and results in the increase of local concentration of preservatives
in the eye. The new fixed combination formulations for glaucoma have been
developed to be safer, more effect and more compliable. This article reviews the 
comparative studies of therapeutic effects of anti-glaucoma fixed combination
formulation and summarizes features of each formulation, and then prospects the
new developing tendency of anti-glaucoma medication.


PMID: 21426848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J AAPOS. 2011 Feb;15(1):54-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jaapos.2010.12.002.

Surgical outcomes with 360-degree suture trabeculotomy in poor-prognosis primary 
congenital glaucoma and glaucoma associated with congenital anomalies or cataract
surgery.

Beck AD(1), Lynn MJ, Crandall J, Mobin-Uddin O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Emory University Medical Center, Atlanta, Georgia
30322, USA. abeck@emory.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate the outcomes of 360-degree suture trabeculotomy in childhood
glaucoma with poor prognosis.
METHODS: A nonrandomized, retrospective chart review was performed on pediatric
patients (younger than 18 years of age) treated with a 360-degree suture
trabeculotomy for glaucoma. The cases were categorized into the following groups:
(1) primary congenital glaucoma with birth-onset presentation accompanied by
corneal clouding noted at birth, (2) primary congenital glaucoma with onset or
presentation after 1 year of age, (3) primary congenital glaucoma with previous
failed goniotomy surgery, (4) infantile-onset glaucoma following congenital
cataract surgery, and (5) infantile-onset glaucoma with associated
ocular/systemic anomalies.
RESULTS: A total of 45 eyes of 33 patients were analyzed. The mean preoperative
intraocular pressure (IOP) was 34.3±6.7 mm Hg on an average of 1.5 medications.
Median age at time of surgery was 7 months. Mean final IOP (median last follow-up
or failure, 12 months) was 22.2±7.1 mm Hg on an average of 1.5 medications. The
probability of success according to time after surgery was 87% at 6 months, 63%
at 1 year, and 58% at 2 years. Kaplan-Meier analysis of Groups 1-4 versus Group 5
failed to demonstrate a statistically significant difference (p=0.13). Of 5 eyes 
with port wine mark-related glaucoma, 2 had a large (>50%), persistent
postoperative hyphema, and concurrent vitreous hemorrhage.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with a range of ocular pathologies can be successfully
treated with 360-degree suture trabeculotomy. Further evaluation of this surgical
technique in primary congenital glaucoma and open-angle glaucoma following
congenital cataract surgery is warranted.

Copyright © 2011 American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus.
Published by Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaapos.2010.12.002 
PMCID: PMC3073639
PMID: 21397807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2011 Jan;115(1):79-92.

[A review 45. characteristics of and treatment strategy for primary open-angle
glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugiyama K.


PMID: 21348233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Ophthalmic Genet. 2011 Sep;32(3):129-37. doi: 10.3109/13816810.2010.544363. Epub 
2011 Feb 22.

Conditions that can be mistaken as early childhood glaucoma.

Khan AO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Ophthalmology, King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia. arif.khan@mssm.edu

Primary congenital glaucoma (isolated goniodysgenesis) has classic phenotypic
features such as increased measured intraocular pressure, globe enlargement
(buphthalmos) with associated myopia, Descemet membrane tears, corneal
haze/scarring with associated astigmatism, iris atrophy, and optic nerve cupping.
These signs also occur in developmental glaucoma (anterior segment dysgeneses)
with infantile onset. However, similar findings can occur in other pediatric
conditions which are sometimes are mistaken as early childhood glaucoma.

DOI: 10.3109/13816810.2010.544363 
PMID: 21341968  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Ghana Med J. 2010 Mar;44(1):25-30.

Presentation patterns of primary open angle glaucomas in north eastern ghana.

Gyasi M(1), Amoako W, Adjuik M.

Author information: 
(1)Bawku Hospital - Eye Department, P.O.Box 45, Bawku, Upper East Region, Ghana.

INTRODUCTION: Previous reports have indicated that open angle glaucoma is a major
problem in the Upper East region of Ghana. Such reports have shown high
prevalence among young patients under the age of 40 years. None has given enough 
details on the burden, pattern of distribution and extent of changes in the optic
nerve head and intraocular pressures. This study aims at addressing these issues 
in order to highlight the situation.
METHODS: Retrospective case series involving review of clinical records of all
first-time attendants diagnosed with glaucoma at the Bawku Hospital between
October 2003 and December 2005. Case definitions and diagnostic criteria were
made to conform as much as possible to the ISGEO and EGS recommendations. Data
analysis was done using the Epi-Info software.
RESULTS: Records of 891 eyes of 446 patients were reviewed. Median age was 56
years with 23.6% below 40 years. POAG was diagnosed in 98.4% with 8.3%
manifesting the NTG variant. One third (34.1%) of all the patients reported
bilaterally blind while half were uniocularly blind. Nearly a third (70.2%) had
CDRs>0.8 while more than half (54.9%) had CDRs measured at unity. Males were
twice as many as females (65.5% and 34.5% respectively) but blindness sequelae
among the latter was twice as much and this was statistically significant
(p=0.0008;chi2 test)
CONCLUSION: late presentation of open angle glaucoma cases is a major problem in 
this part of Ghana. We recommend a more aggressive approach to tackle the disease
and reduce its blindness sequelae.


PMCID: PMC2956317
PMID: 21326988  [PubMed]


318. Brain Nerve. 2011 Feb;63(2):165-70.

[Gene mutations in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Oda M(1), Izumi Y, Kaji R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Mifukai Vihara Hananosato Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized 
by progressive muscle weakness that reflects degeneration of motor neurons in the
primary motor cortex, corticospinal tracts, brainstem, and spinal cord. Most ALS 
cases are sporadic, but about 5%-10% are familial. The majority of familial ALS
(FALS) cases follow an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, and include the
following mutations: ALS1, Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1); ALS3; ALS4,
senataxin; ALS6, fused in sarcoma (FUS); ALS7; ALS8, vesicle-associated membrane 
protein; ALS9, angiogenin; ALS10, TAR DNA-binding protein (TARDBP); and
ALS11/FIG4. Some of these gene mutations are rarely seen in sporadic ALS cases.
ALS2/alsin and ALS5 show an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. Recently,
mutations in the gene encoding optineurin, earlier reported to be a causative
gene for primary open-angle glaucoma, have also been found in patients with ALS. 
It has also been demonstrated that a mutation in the D-amino acid oxidase gene is
associated with classic adult-onset FALS. However, these genetic defects occur in
only about 20%-30% FLAS cases, while most genes causing FALS remain unknown.


PMID: 21301041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Semin Ophthalmol. 2011 Jan;26(1):28-32. doi: 10.3109/08820538.2010.541317.

Central corneal thickness as a predictor of visual field loss in primary open
angle glaucoma for a Hispanic population.

Fernandez-Bahamonde JL(1), Roman-Rodriguez C, Fernandez-Ruiz MC.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine, PO Box
194507, San Juan PR 00919-4507. jfernand326@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Primary Open Angle Glaucoma is a multi-factorial disease with a
devastating impact on the quality of life of the patient in the moderate and
severe stages of the disease. Identifying risk factors for the development of
moderate to severe visual field loss may decrease the proportion of patients that
experience the severe forms of this disease.
PURPOSE: To evaluate whether the central corneal thickness correlates inversely
with the severity of visual field loss in Primary Open Angle Glaucoma.
METHODS: Retrospective review of 308 charts of patients seen during a six-week
period by a glaucoma specialist in his community practice in a large Hispanic
area. Patients were classified as normal, ocular hypertensive, and those with
Primary Open Angle Glaucoma. Odds ratios and 95% confidence interval were
calculated to evaluate risk factors associated to ocular hypertension and Primary
Open Angle Glaucoma. Finally, a multivariate polytomous regression model was used
to evaluate central corneal thickness as an independent predictor of outcome
after adjustment for age and hypertension. Statistical significance was set at
p<0.05.
RESULTS: Patients with Primary Open Angle Glaucoma show a statistically
significant inverse correlation between central corneal thickness and the
severity of the visual field damage.
CONCLUSION: Thinner corneas could be considered a risk factor for the severity of
visual field loss in Primary Open Angle Glaucoma.

DOI: 10.3109/08820538.2010.541317 
PMCID: PMC3087288
PMID: 21275602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Int J Ophthalmol. 2011;4(3):298-302. doi: 10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2011.03.18.
Epub 2011 Jun 18.

Head trauma can cause transient elevation of intraocular pressure in patients
with open angle glaucoma.

Wei H(1), Spaeth GL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 
610041, Sichuan Province, China.

AIM: To describe a newly-recognized entity, illustrated by five cases of glaucoma
in whom trauma to the head, but not the eye, resulted in marked, transient
elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP).
METHODS: Retrospective case series. Chart review.
RESULTS: All five cases had a diagnosis of primary open-angle glaucoma prior to
the experience of trauma to the head. All cases had an unusual elevation of IOP
(around 70 percent) for days to weeks following the trauma, after which the IOP
fell to pre-accident levels. No cause other than the trauma could be determined.
CONCLUSION: The relationship between head trauma and elevation of IOP appears
real.

DOI: 10.3980/j.issn.2222-3959.2011.03.18 
PMCID: PMC3340807
PMID: 22553666  [PubMed]


321. J Glaucoma. 2012 Jan;21(1):17-21. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181fc8020.

Clinical results of selective laser trabeculoplasty in open-angle glaucoma in
Japanese eyes: comparison of 180 degree with 360 degree SLT.

Shibata M(1), Sugiyama T, Ishida O, Ueki M, Kojima S, Okuda T, Ikeda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College, Daigaku-machi,
Takatsuki-shi, Osaka, Japan. mahosaru@iris.eonet.ne.jp

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) in the
adjunctive treatment of medically diagnosed open-angle glaucoma and to compare
the difference in intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering effects between 180-degree 
and 360-degree SLT.
METHODS: This study is a retrospective consecutive chart review of open-angle
glaucoma patients who had undergone first-time SLT from January of 2005 to July
of 2007. All the patients had primary open-angle glaucoma or pseudoexfoliation
glaucoma under medical treatment and followed for at least 3 months after the
procedure. The IOP reduction and treatment success were compared with the 2
treatment types.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients underwent 180-degree SLT (35 eyes) and 25 patients 
underwent 360-degree SLT (34 eyes). The average follow-up was 19.5 months (range 
3 to 36) for 180-degree group and 17.9 months (range 3 to 36) for 360-degree
group. During the follow-up period, the 360-degree SLT group showed significantly
lower posttreatment IOP at each follow-up point relative to pretreatment IOP, and
its IOP reduction rate stayed statistically higher than the 180-degree group. We 
found a positive correlation between the pretreatment IOP and the IOP reduction
rate for 360-degree SLT. The lower the pretreatment IOP was, the lower IOP
reduction rate became. A Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed higher success
rates after 360-degree SLT than after 180-degree SLT.
CONCLUSIONS: The 360-degree SLT was shown to be more effective than180-degree SLT
for intermediateterm reduction in IOP of Japanese patients with open-angle
glaucoma as an adjunctive treatment protocol.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181fc8020 
PMID: 21173708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jan;59 Suppl:S31-42. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.73685.

Complex genetic mechanisms in glaucoma: an overview.

Rao KN(1), Nagireddy S, Chakrabarti S.

Author information: 
(1)Kallam Anji Reddy Molecular Genetics Laboratory, Prof Brien Holden Eye
Research Centre, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, India.

Glaucomas comprise a group of hereditary optic neuropathies characterized by
progressive and irreversible visual field loss and damage to the optic nerve
head. It is a complex disease with multiple molecular mechanisms underlying its
pathogenesis. Genetic heterogeneity is the hallmark of all glaucomas and multiple
chromosomal loci have been linked to the disease, but only a few genes have been 
characterized, viz. myocilin (MYOC), optineurin (OPTN), WDR36 and neurotrophin-4 
(NTF4) in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and CYP1B1 and LTBP2 in congenital
and developmental glaucomas. Case-control-based association studies on candidate 
genes involved in different stages of glaucoma pathophysiology have indicated a
very limited involvement. The complex mechanisms leading to glaucoma pathogenesis
indicate that it could be attributed to multiple genes with varying magnitudes of
effect. In this review, we provide an appraisal of the various efforts in
unraveling the molecular mystery in glaucoma and also some future directions
based on the available scientific knowledge and technological developments.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.73685 
PMCID: PMC3038510
PMID: 21150032  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Oftalmologia. 2010;54(3):8-20.

[Mendelian molecular genetics in glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Călugăru D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinica de Oftalmologie Cluj-Napoca.

Early-onset forms of glaucoma are inherited as Mendelian-dominant or
Mendelian-recessive traits. They encompass primary congenital or infantile
glaucoma; juvenile primary open-angle glaucoma; development glaucomas including
Rieger syndrome, glaucoma associated with nail-patella syndrome, Peters' anomaly,
and nanophthalmos; and glaucoma associated with pigment dispersion syndrome.
Personalized gene therapy has been proposed as an alternative therapeutic
strategy for ocular diseases. This approach might be applicable in families with 
primary congenital glaucoma and defined mutations in the CYP1B1 gene.


PMID: 21137185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Vestn Oftalmol. 2010 Mar-Apr;126(2):42-5.

[Role of secondary pathogenic factors in the pathogenesis of primary open-angle
glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Lebedev OI, Stepanova EA.

This review deals with the influence of secondary pathogenic factors that include
impaired circulatory autoregulation, altered axonal transport, a glutamate
calcium cascade of reactions, reduced natural antioxidant system, and accumulated
lipid peroxidation products in the eye tissues, pseudoexfoliation syndrome,
diminished ciliary muscle function on the pathogenesis of primary open-angle
glaucoma. The above factors serve as an element of the major pathogenic factors
(elevated intraocular pressure, hemodynamic disorders), aggravate the course of a
glaucomatous process and should be kept in mind when complex treatment for the
disease is used.


PMID: 21105379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Am J Med. 2011 Jan;124(1):20-5. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2010.08.011. Epub 2010 Nov 
17.

Iatrogenic glaucoma secondary to medications.

Razeghinejad MR(1), Myers JS, Katz LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Wills Eye Institute, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy with primary and secondary forms.
Iatrogenic glaucoma secondary to medications is potentially blinding but
preventable. Most drug profiles listing glaucoma as a contraindication or an
adverse effect are concerned with inducing acute angle-closure glaucoma.
Anticholinergic or adrenergic agents are the most common for inducing "pupillary 
block" angle-closure glaucoma. Patients with a narrow irido-corneal angle are at 
high risk. Sulfa drugs induce "non-pupillary block" angle-closure glaucoma as an 
idiosyncratic reaction to the drug in patients with an open or narrow
irido-corneal angle. Steroids and a few antineoplastic agents induce open-angle
glaucoma. The risk is higher with topical rather than systemic steroids. The
first step in the management is discontinuation of the drug, followed by medical,
laser, and, if necessary, surgical intervention.

2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2010.08.011 
PMID: 21092926  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Microcirculation. 2010 Oct;17(7):568-81. doi: 10.1111/j.1549-8719.2010.00045.x.

Vascular reactivity of optic nerve head and retinal blood vessels in glaucoma--a 
review.

Venkataraman ST(1), Flanagan JG, Hudson C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Glaucoma is characterized by loss of retinal nerve fibers, structural changes to 
the optic nerve, and an associated change in visual function. The major risk
factor for glaucoma is an increase in intraocular pressure (IOP). However, it has
been demonstrated that a subset of glaucoma patients exhibit optic neuropathy
despite a normal range of IOP. It has been proposed that primary open angle
glaucoma could be associated with structural abnormalities and/or functional
dysregulation of the vasculature supplying the optic nerve and surrounding
retinal tissue. Under normal conditions, blood flow is autoregulated, i.e.,
maintained at a relatively constant level, in the retina and ONH, irrespective of
variation in ocular perfusion pressure. A number of factors released by the
vascular endothelium, including endothelin-1 and nitric oxide, are suggested to
play an important role in the regulation of local perfusion in the retina and
ONH. Most work to-date has investigated homeostatic hemodynamic parameters in
glaucoma, rather than the measurement of the hemodynamic response to a
provocation. Future work should comprehensively assess blood flow in all the
ocular vascular beds and blood vessels supplying the eye in response to
standardized stimuli in order to better understand the pathophysiology of
glaucomatous optic neuropathy.

© 2010 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1549-8719.2010.00045.x 
PMID: 21040122  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Apr;39(3):252-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02455.x.

Vascular risk factors in glaucoma: a review.

Yanagi M(1), Kawasaki R, Wang JJ, Wong TY, Crowston J, Kiuchi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital,
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria.

Glaucoma, one of the major causes of blindness in the world, is a progressive
optic neuropathy. Elevated intraocular pressure is a well-known major risk factor
for glaucoma. In addition, there is growing evidence that vascular factors may
play a role in glaucoma pathogenesis. Systemic (e.g. hypertension, diabetes) and 
ocular vascular factors (e.g. ocular blood flow, ocular perfusion pressure) have 
been assessed for associations with glaucoma. However, direct and convincing
evidence for primary mechanisms of glaucoma is still lacking. The aim of this
review is to summarize the evidence implicating vascular factors in the
pathogenesis of glaucoma, with particular emphasis on the role of ocular blood
flow and ocular circulation as risk factors for primary open angle glaucoma.

© 2011 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2011 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02455.x 
PMID: 20973906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Apr;39(3):207-14. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02444.x.

Combined trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy augmented with 5-fluorouracil in paediatric
glaucoma.

Jalil A(1), Au L, Khan I, Ashworth J, Lloyd IC, Biswas S.

Author information: 
(1)The University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre,
Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, Manchester, UK.

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Apr;39(3):191-2.

BACKGROUND: To describe our experience of combined trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy
in paediatric glaucomas with a special emphasis on the use of 5-fluorouracil and 
releasable sutures.
DESIGN: Retrospective review carried out at Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, UK, a 
tertiary referral centre.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-nine eyes of 21 consecutive patients with congenital
glaucoma undergoing combined trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy augmented with
5-fluorouracil.
METHODS:   5-Fluorouracil augmented combined trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy was
carried out with intense postoperative management and suture adjustment of
releasable sutures within the first 3 weeks after surgery. Peribleb
5-fluorouracil injections were given repeatedly if there were signs of aggressive
bleb scarring.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Absolute success was defined as intraocular pressure of
21 mmHg or less, clear cornea and absence of progressive glaucomatous optic disc 
changes at last follow up, whereas qualified success was defined as these
endpoints with anti-glaucoma medication.
RESULTS: Absolute success was achieved in 19 out of 29 eyes (65.5%), and a
further 4 (13.8%) had qualified success. There was no difference in the surgical 
outcomes of primary infantile glaucoma and secondary causes of paediatric
glaucoma such as anterior segment dysgenesis. Combined
trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy had a significantly greater success rate as a
secondary procedure rather than as a primary procedure.
CONCLUSION: 5-Fluorouracil-enhanced combined trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy with
releasable sutures appears to be an effective procedure for congenital glaucoma
refractory to goniotomy. It is less effective as a primary procedure when severe 
corneal haze prevents goniotomy in newborn congenital glaucoma. Intense
postoperative monitoring including active bleb manipulation with needling and
5-fluorouracil injections may increase the success of the procedure.

© 2010 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2010 Royal
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02444.x 
PMID: 20973895  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Eye (Lond). 2010 Oct;24 Suppl 1:S1-7. doi: 10.1038/eye.2010.112.

Focusing on glaucoma progression and the clinical importance of progression rate 
measurement: a review.

Rossetti L(1), Goni F, Denis P, Bengtsson B, Martinez A, Heijl A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital, Lund University, Malmö,
Sweden.

PURPOSE: This review aims to provide guidance in managing glaucoma patients more 
effectively. It focuses on the importance of detecting progression and measuring 
its rate within the management of primary open-angle glaucoma today. Recent
findings strongly indicate that continued monitoring of visual fields (VFs) and
reassessment of target intraocular pressures (IOPs) depending on VF progression
rates are mandatory in the management of glaucoma.
METHODS: Data on glaucoma progression from older as well as most recent
literature findings are summarized in this article. In addition, the article
elaborates on the scientific content from a series of lectures given by experts
in the field during several international symposia on 'rate of progression' in
2008.
RESULTS: This review summarizes key findings on the natural history of glaucoma
and known factors for disease progression. It highlights the visual function
changes observed as glaucoma progresses and discusses disease impact on patients'
quality of life. Findings support the need to obtain information on rate of
progression and its importance for clinical management. Practical ways to measure
rate of progression are given by new software options to help measure major
parameters. Finally, on the basis of a patient's individual rate of progression
therapeutic options are assessed, such as maximum medical therapy with fixed
combinations.
CONCLUSIONS: Estimating a patient's individual rate of VF progression by using
newly developed analyses will be helpful to forecast the potential future
development of the glaucoma. An individualized treatment approach then requires
that in patients in whom the risk of becoming visually impaired or blind during
their lifetime is higher, a more intensive medical IOP-lowering therapy such as
fixed combinations can be considered as treatment option.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2010.112 
PMID: 20944656  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Surv Ophthalmol. 2010 Nov-Dec;55(6):561-83. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2010.07.003. Epub 2010 Sep 19.

The heritability of ocular traits.

Sanfilippo PG(1), Hewitt AW, Hammond CJ, Mackey DA.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, Royal Victorian
Eye and Ear Hospital, Melbourne, Australia. p.sanfilippo@pgrad.unimelb.edu.au

Heritability is the proportion of phenotypic variation in a population that is
attributable to genetic variation among individuals. Many ophthalmic disorders
and biometric traits are known to have a genetic basis and consequently much work
has been published in the literature estimating the heritability of various
ocular parameters. We collated and summarized the findings of heritability
studies conducted in the field of ophthalmology. We grouped the various studies
broadly by phenotype as follows: refraction, primary open-angle glaucoma,
age-related macular degeneration (AMD), cataract, diabetic retinopathy, and
others. A total of 82 articles were retrieved from the literature relating to
estimation of heritability for an ocular disease or biometric trait; of these, 37
papers were concerned with glaucoma, 28 with refraction, 4 with AMD, 5 with
diabetic retinopathy, and 4 with cataract. The highest reported heritability for 
an ophthalmic trait is 0.99 for the phenotype ≥ 20 small hard drusen, indicating 
that observed variation in this parameter is largely governed by genetic factors.
Over 60% of the studies employed a twin study design and a similar percentage
utilized variance components methods and structural equation modeling (SEM) to
derive their heritability values. Using modern SEM techniques, heritability
estimates derived from twin subjects were generally higher than those from family
data. Many of the estimates are in the moderate to high range, but to date the
majority of genetic variants accounting for these findings have not been
uncovered, hence much work remains to be undertaken to elucidate fully their
molecular etiology.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2010.07.003 
PMID: 20851442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Surv Ophthalmol. 2010 Nov-Dec;55(6):516-30. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2010.02.005. Epub 2010 Sep 20.

Micropulsed diode laser therapy: evolution and clinical applications.

Sivaprasad S(1), Elagouz M, McHugh D, Shona O, Dorin G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, King's College Hospital, London, UK.
senswathi@aol.com

Many clinical trials have demonstrated the clinical efficacy of laser
photocoagulation in the treatment of retinal vascular diseases, including
diabetic retinopathy. There is, however, collateral iatrogenic retinal damage and
functional loss after conventional laser treatment. Such side effects may occur
even when the treatment is appropriately performed because of morphological
damage caused by the visible endpoint, typically a whitening burn. The
development of the diode laser with micropulsed emission has allowed subthreshold
therapy without a visible burn endpoint. This greatly reduces the risk of
structural and functional retinal damage, while retaining the therapeutic
efficacy of conventional laser treatment. Studies using subthreshold micropulse
laser protocols have reported successful outcomes for diabetic macular edema,
central serous chorioretinopathy, macular edema secondary to retinal vein
occlusion, and primary open angle glaucoma. The report includes the rationale and
basic principles underlying micropulse diode laser therapy, together with a
review of its current clinical applications.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2010.02.005 
PMID: 20850854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Primary Care Screening for Ocular Hypertension and Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma
[Internet].

Fleming C, Whitlock E, Beil T, Smit B.
Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2005 Mar.
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Evidence Syntheses, formerly Systematic
Evidence Reviews.

PURPOSE: Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause of blindness and
vision-related disability. This review examines the effectiveness of screening
and treatment of asymptomatic individuals with early POAG.
METHODS: We identified studies of glaucoma screening and treatment from MEDLINE, 
the Cochrane Library, and glaucoma experts. Two reviewers abstracted relevant
studies and graded articles according to U.S. Preventive Services Task Force
criteria.
DATA SYNTHESIS: No randomized, controlled trials of population screening for POAG
have been reported. We found no population-based studies demonstrating that
screening is feasible, accurate, or reliable for detecting early glaucoma. Two
randomized, controlled trials examined the efficacy of treatment to lower
intraocular pressure (IOP) compared with no treatment for persons with early
primary open-angle glaucoma. In a Swedish trial, treatment reduced progression at
5 years from 62% without treatment to 45% with treatment (ARR 17%, NNT 5.8, p =
0.007). In a U.S. trial of patients with early POAG and normal IOP, progression
at 5 years was observed in 39% without treatment and 33% with treatment (p =
0.21). The benefit of delaying progression of visual field loss on vision-related
function in patients with early POAG is unclear. The principal harm of treatment 
is loss of visual acuity due to an increased risk of cataract formation.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment to lower intraocular pressure may delay progression of
visual field deficits in some asymptomatic individuals with early POAG. Further
studies of population screening are needed to demonstrate that early recognition 
and treatment of glaucoma in asymptomatic patients is effective in improving
vision-specific functional outcomes and health-related quality of life.

PMID: 20722130  [PubMed]


333. Exp Eye Res. 2011 Aug;93(2):165-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2010.07.014. Epub 2010 Aug
12.

The pathogenic role of transforming growth factor-β2 in glaucomatous damage to
the optic nerve head.

Fuchshofer R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of Regensburg,
Universitaetsstr. 31, 93053 Regensburg, Germany.
rudolf.fuchshofer@vkl.uni-regensburg

In patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), the optic nerve head (ONH)
shows characteristic cupping correlated with visual field defects. The
progressive optic neuropathy is characterized by irreversible loss of retinal
ganglion cells (RGC). The critical risk factor for axonal damage at the ONH is an
elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). The increase in IOP correlates with axonal
loss in the ONH, which might be due to an impaired axoplasmatic flow leading to
the loss of RGCs. Damage to the optic nerve is thought to occur in the lamina
cribrosa (LC) region of the ONH, which is composed of characteristic sieve-like
connective tissue cribriform plates through which RGC axons exit the eye. The
cupping of the optic disc, and the compression and excavation of LC are
characteristic signs of glaucomatous ONH remodelling. In ONH of POAG patients a
disorganized distribution and deposition of elastic fibers and a typical
pronounced thickening of the connective tissue septae surrounding the optic nerve
fibers is found. Transforming growth factor (TGF)-β2 could be one of the
pathogenic factors responsible for the structural alterations in POAG patients as
the TGF-β2 levels in the ONH of glaucomatous eyes are elevated as well as in the 
aqueous homour. TGF-β2 leads to an increased synthesis of extracellular matrix
(ECM) molecules mediated by connective tissue growth factor and to an impaired
ECM degradation in cultured ONH astrocytes. Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-4
effectively antagonizes the effects of TGF-β2 on matrix deposition. The BMP
antagonist gremlin blocks this inhibition, allowing TGF-β2 stimulation of ECM
synthesis. Overall, the ECM in the ONH is kept in balance in the OHN by factors
that augment or block the activity of TGF-β2.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2010.07.014 
PMID: 20708611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Exp Eye Res. 2011 Aug;93(2):133-40. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2010.08.004. Epub 2010
Aug 11.

Glaucomatous cupping of the lamina cribrosa: a review of the evidence for active 
progressive remodeling as a mechanism.

Crawford Downs J(1), Roberts MD, Sigal IA.

Author information: 
(1)Ocular Biomechanics Laboratory of the Devers Eye Institute, Legacy Health,
1225 NE 2nd Ave., Portland, OR 97232, USA. cdowns@deverseye.org

The purpose of this review is to examine the literature in an attempt to
elucidate a biomechanical basis for glaucomatous cupping. In particular, this
work focuses on the role of biomechanics in driving connective tissue remodeling 
in the progression of laminar morphology from a normal state to that of an
excavated glaucomatous state. While there are multiple contributing factors to
the pathogenesis of glaucoma, we focus on laminar extracellular matrix (ECM)
remodeling in glaucoma and the feedback mechanisms and signals that may guide
progressive laminar cupping. We review the literature on the potential mechanisms
of glaucomatous changes in the laminar ECM at the anatomic, structural, cellular 
and subcellular levels in the context of the biomechanical paradigm of
glaucomatous onset and progression. Several conclusions can be drawn from this
review. First, extensive remodeling of the lamina cribrosa ECM occurs in primary 
open angle glaucoma. Second, there is surprisingly little evidence to support
acute mechanical damage to the lamina as the principal mechanism of cupping.
Third, ONH astrocytes and lamina cribrosa cells can sense their mechanical
environment and respond to mechanical stimuli by remodeling the ECM. Fourth,
there is evidence suggesting that chronic remodeling of the lamina results in a
progressive posterior migration of the laminar insertion into the canal wall,
which eventually results in the posterior lamina inserting into the pia mater.
Finally, modeling studies suggest that laminar remodeling may be a biomechanical 
feedback mechanism through which cells modify their environment in an attempt to 
return to a homeostatic mechanical environment. It is plausible that
biomechanics-driven connective tissue remodeling is a mechanism in the
progression of laminar morphology from a normal state to that of a cupped,
excavated glaucomatous state.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2010.08.004 
PMCID: PMC3026919
PMID: 20708001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2010 Mar-Apr;73(2):141-5.

Medical decision, persistence of initial treatment, and glaucoma progression in a
Brazilian reference hospital.

Paula JS(1), Ramos Filho JA, Cecchetti DF, Nagatsuyu DT, Rodrigues Mde L, Rocha
EM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology, and Head and Neck Surgery,
Ribeirão Preto School of Medicine, São Paulo University, Ribeirão Preto, SP,
Brazil. jspaula@fmrp.usp.br

PURPOSE: To evaluate the initial medical decision regarding primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) treatment in a referral center, and to assess the relationship
between the persistence of treatment and the disease progression in cases managed
exclusively with medication.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed for 65 patients with primary 
open-angle glaucoma referred to a tertiary hospital. The following clinical data 
were analyzed: initial medication, persistence of treatment, best corrected
visual acuity, visual field mean deviation index, cup/disc ratio, and intraocular
pressure. Patients were classified into four categories in order to verify the
clinical evolution.
RESULTS: The mean number of visits/ year was 4.4 +/- 3.5, and the follow-up
period was 40.7 +/- 22.8 months. Mean persistence time was 12.9 +/- 13.9 months. 
By six and twelve months, respectively, 39.1% and 62.5% of patients had
discontinued the initially prescribed regimen, mainly by adding to (42%) or
changing (26%) the course of treatment. Thirteen patients (21%) were reclassified
to a worse category of primary open-angle glaucoma, however, despite this trend, 
no significant correlation was found between shorter persistence and primary
open-angle glaucoma worsening.
CONCLUSIONS: Persistence rates with initial therapy schemes were low, as measured
by medical decisions to change the course of treatment. Therefore, improvement in
the initial medical decision is crucial in order to offer a more stable and
effective treatment for primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 20549042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Acta Ophthalmol. 2011 Sep;89(6):505-14. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.01915.x.
Epub 2010 Apr 28.

Role of cerebrospinal fluid pressure in the pathogenesis of glaucoma.

Jonas JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical Faculty Mannheim, University of
Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany. Jost.Jonas@augen.ma.uni-heidelberg.de

The pathogenesis of normal (intraocular) pressure glaucoma has remained unclear
so far. As hospital-based studies showed an association of normal-pressure
glaucoma with low systemic blood pressure, particularly at night, and with
vasospastic symptoms, it has been hypothesized that a vascular factor may play a 
primary role in the pathogenesis of normal-pressure glaucoma. That assumption
may, however, be contradicted by the morphology of the optic nerve head. Eyes
with normal-pressure glaucoma and glaucomatous eyes with high-intraocular
pressure can show a strikingly similar appearance of the optic nerve head,
including a loss of neuroretinal rim, a deepening of the optic cup, and an
enlargement of parapapillary atrophy. These features, however, are not found in
any (other) vascular optic neuropathy, with the exception of an enlargement and
deepening of the optic cup in arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy. One 
may additionally take into account (i) that it is the trans-lamina cribrosa
pressure difference (and not the trans-corneal pressure difference, i.e. the
so-called intraocular pressure) which is of importance for the physiology and
pathophysiology of the optic nerve head; (ii) that studies have shown that the
anatomy of the optic nerve head including the intraocular pressure, the anatomy
and biomechanics of the lamina cribrosa and peripapillary sclera, retrobulbar
orbital cerebrospinal fluid pressure and the retrobulbar optic nerve tissue
pressure may be of importance for the pathogenesis of the highly myopic type of
chronic open-angle glaucoma; (iii) that studies have suggested a physiological
association between the pressure in all three fluid filled compartments, i.e. the
systemic arterial blood pressure, the cerebrospinal fluid pressure and the
intraocular pressure; (iv) that an experimental investigation suggested that a
low cerebrospinal fluid pressure may play a role in the pathogenesis of normal
(intraocular) pressure glaucoma; and (v) that recent clinical studies reported
that patients with normal (intraocular) pressure glaucoma had significantly lower
cerebrospinal fluid pressure and a higher trans-lamina cribrosa pressure
difference when compared to normal subjects. One may, therefore, postulate that a
low cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be associated with normal (intraocular)
pressure glaucoma. A low systemic blood pressure, particularly at night, could
physiologically be associated with a low cerebrospinal fluid pressure, which
leads to an abnormally high trans-lamina cribrosa pressure difference and as such
to a similar situation as if the cerebrospinal fluid pressure is normal and the
intraocular pressure is elevated. This model could explain why patients with
normal (intraocular) pressure glaucoma tend to have a low systemic blood
pressure, and why eyes with normal (intraocular) pressure glaucoma and eyes with 
high-pressure glaucoma, in contrast to eyes with a direct vascular optic
neuropathy, show profound similarities in the appearance of the optic nerve head.

© 2010 The Author. Journal compilation © 2010 Acta Ophthalmol.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.01915.x 
PMID: 20456257  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2010 May;221(1):1-10.

Genetic bases for glaucoma.

Fuse N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Japan. fusen@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp

Glaucoma is the leading cause of visual impairment and blindness throughout the
world. Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG; MIM 137760) is the main type of
glaucoma in most populations, and more than 20 genetic loci for POAG have been
reported. Only three causative genes have been identified in these loci, viz.
myocilin (MYOC), optineurin (OPTN), and WD repeat domain 36 (WDR36). However,
mutations in these genes account for only a small percentage of the patients with
POAG. Some of these glaucoma cases have a Mendelian inheritance pattern, and a
considerable fraction of the cases result from a large number of variants in
several genes each contributing small effects. Glaucoma is considered to be a
common disease such as diabetes mellitus, coronary disease, Crohn disease, and
several( )common cancers. The main technological approaches used to identify the 
genes associated with glaucoma are the candidate gene approach, linkage analysis,
case-control association study, and genome-wide association study. Association
studies have found about 27 genes related to POAG, but the glaucoma-causing
effects of these genes need to be investigated in more detail. The current trend 
is to use case-control association studies or genome-wide association studies to 
map the genes associated with glaucoma. Such studies are expected to greatly
advance our understanding of the genetic basis of glaucoma, and to provide
information on the effectiveness of glaucoma therapy. This review gives an
overview on the genetic aspects of glaucoma.


PMID: 20431268  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Am J Ophthalmol. 2010 May;149(5):704-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.01.018.

Blood pressure, perfusion pressure, and glaucoma.

Caprioli J(1), Coleman AL; Blood Flow in Glaucoma Discussion.

Collaborators: Alm A, Bereliani A, Chauhan B, Kaufman P, Kiel J, Krupin T, Leske 
C, McKinnon S, Wheeler L.

Author information: 
(1)Jules Stein Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, David Geffen School of
Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA. Caprioli@ucla.edu

PURPOSE: To provide a critical review of the relationships between blood
pressure, ocular blood flow, and glaucoma and the potential for glaucoma
treatment through modulation of ocular perfusion.
DESIGN: Summaries of the pertinent literature and input from glaucoma researchers
and specialists with relevant experience.
METHODS: Review and interpretation of selected literature and the results of a
1-day group discussion involving glaucoma researchers and specialists with
expertise in epidemiology, blood flow measurements, and cardiovascular
physiology.
RESULTS: Accurate, reproducible, and clinically relevant measurements of blood
flow within the optic nerve head and associated capillary beds are not fully
achievable with current methodology. Autoregulation of blood flow in the retina
and optic nerve head occurs over a large range of intraocular pressures and blood
pressures. Regulation of choroidal blood flow is provided by a mix of
neurohumoral and local mechanisms. Vascular factors may be important in a
subgroup of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma, and particularly in
patients with normal-tension glaucoma and evidence of vasospasm. Low ocular
perfusion pressure and low blood pressure are associated with an increased risk
of glaucoma in population-based studies. The physiologic nocturnal dip in blood
pressure is protective against systemic end-organ damage, but its effects on
glaucoma are not well elaborated or understood. Large-scale longitudinal studies 
would be required to evaluate the risk of glaucomatous progression in
non-dippers, dippers, and extreme nocturnal blood pressure dippers.
CONCLUSIONS: Decreases in perfusion pressure and blood pressure have been
associated with glaucoma. However, there is no evidence to support the value of
increasing a patient's blood pressure as therapy for glaucoma. Such
recommendations are not currently warranted, since we lack crucial information
about the microvascular beds in which perfusion is important in glaucoma, and the
appropriate methods to evaluate their blood flow. There are also cardiovascular
safety concerns associated with treatments designed to increase ocular perfusion 
pressure and blood flow by increasing blood pressure, especially in elderly
patients. For these reasons and with present evidence it is unlikely that safe
and effective glaucoma treatments based on altering optic nerve perfusion will
soon be available.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.01.018 
PMID: 20399924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


339. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2010 Apr;33(4):273-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2010.02.009. Epub 2010
Mar 26.

[Acute angle closure and angle closure glaucoma: Phacoemulsification as
first-line treatment].

[Article in French]

Lachkar Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'ophtalmologie du Trocadéro, Paris, Service d'ophtalmologie, Hôpital
Saint Joseph, 185, Raymond Losserand, 75674 Paris cedex 14, France.
ylachkar@hpsj.fr

Angle closure glaucoma is characterized by an optic neuropathy with a
glaucomatous visual field defect with a white painless eye and mimics primary
open-angle glaucoma. Acute angle closure attack is more symptomatic, with a red
painful eye and elevated intraocular pressure. In both cases, iridocorneal angle 
closure is due to an increase in the thickness of the natural lens, which with
age has a tendency to close a narrow angle. The rational approach to treating
these situations is lens extraction. With today's improved lens extraction
techniques, this surgical treatment should be proposed more frequently.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2010.02.009 
PMID: 20347182  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


340. West Afr J Med. 2009 May;28(3):141-7.

Current concepts in the diagnosis of primary open angle glaucoma.

Omoti AE(1), Okeigbemen VW, Waziri-Erameh JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Benin Teaching Hospital, PMB 1111, 
Benin City. Afeomoti@Yahoo.Com

BACKGROUND: Primary open angle glaucoma is characterized by quantifiable
parameters including the intraocular pressure, the aqueous outflow facility, and 
geometric measurements of the optic disc and visual defects. Despite this,
diagnosis remains controversial.
OBJECTIVE: To review the current concepts in the diagnosis of primary open angle 
glaucoma and adapt them to situations where high technology facilities are
lacking.
DATA SOURCE: Information was obtained from journals/medline, Hinari, the American
Academy of Ophthalmology preferred practice pattern CD, and reputable textbooks
using publications from 1972 to 2007.
RESULTS: The Preferred Practice Pattern Committee of the American Academy of
Ophthalmology recommends that the comprehensive initial glaucoma evaluation
(history and physical examination) includes comprehensive adult eye evaluation
with special attention to those factors that specifically bear on the diagnosis
such as the optic disc, nerve fibre layer and visual field evaluation, open
anterior chamber angles on gonioscopy and absence of secondary causes of
glaucoma. Intraocular pressure is no longer relied onin the diagnosis of primary 
open angle glaucoma. Sequential evaluation of optic disc cup and size,
neuroretinal rim size and shape, retinal nerve fiber layer, presence of
peripapillary atrophy, and presence of retinal or optic disc haemorrhages enhance
the ability to detect glaucomatous damages.
CONCLUSION: A simple systematic approach in examination of the optic discs and
visual field will improve accurate diagnosis of glaucoma.


PMID: 20306727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Int Ophthalmol. 2010 Aug;30(4):361-6. doi: 10.1007/s10792-010-9355-2. Epub 2010
Feb 25.

Presentation of glaucoma in an urban tertiary care hospital in South America:
legal blindness and prevalence.

Osaki TH(1), Kasahara N, Della Paolera M, Cohen R, Nishiwaki-Dantas MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Irmandade da Santa Casa de Misericórdia de São
Paulo Hospital, R. Vergueiro, 2045 cj 1009, 04101-000, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil.
tammyht32@yahoo.com.br

PURPOSE: To determine disease severity in glaucoma patients who presented to a
tertiary care service for the first time and to determine the prevalence of
different types of glaucoma.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of data of patients referred to the Glaucoma
Service at the Santa Casa de Misericórdia de São Paulo, Brazil in 2007. A
complete chart review from 448 patients was done; data regarding age, gender,
ethnicity, family history, duration of the disease, previous treatment, best
corrected visual acuity, cup-to-disc ratio, intraocular pressure, diagnosis and
treatment were collected. Glaucoma was diagnosed by the presence of typical optic
disk abnormalities, disregarding IOP values.
RESULTS: 52.3% of patients presented visual acuity less than or equal to 20/200
and 67.7% presented cup-to-disc ratio between 0.8 and 1.0 in the worse-seeing
eye; 13.4% of patients were considered legally blind. Primary open angle glaucoma
was the most prevalent form of glaucoma (54.2%, 95% CI: 48.5-59.5) and chronic
angle closure glaucoma was the second most frequent (11.5%, 95% CI: 8.25-15.5).
CONCLUSION: A considerable rate of patients (almost 60% in the better-seeing eye 
and 70% in the worse-seeing eye) presented with advanced glaucoma. Strategies
that create conditions for early diagnosis are deemed necessary to reduce
glaucoma-related blindness in the Brazilian population.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-010-9355-2 
PMID: 20182768  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Feb 17;(2):CD006539. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD006539.pub2.

Neuroprotection for treatment of glaucoma in adults.

Sena DF(1), Ramchand K, Lindsley K.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, 243 Charles St, Connecting Building 703, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA, 02114.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013;2:CD006539.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is a heterogeneous group of conditions involving progressive
damage to the optic nerve, deterioration of retinal ganglion cells and ultimately
visual field loss. It is a leading cause of blindness worldwide. Open angle
glaucoma (OAG), the commonest form of glaucoma, is a chronic condition that may
or may not present with increased intraocular pressure (IOP). Neuroprotection for
glaucoma refers to any intervention intended to prevent optic nerve damage or
cell death. The treatment can target extracellular factors such as reducing IOP, 
or cellular factors derived from the optic nerve itself such as blocking
intracellular death signals.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review was to systematically examine the
evidence regarding the effectiveness of neuroprotective agents, either topical or
oral, for slowing the progression of OAG in adults.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
(CENTRAL) (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group Trials Register)
(The Cochrane Library, Issue 4, 2009), MEDLINE (January 1960 to January 2010),
EMBASE (January 1980 to January 2010), Latin American and Caribbean Literature on
Health Sciences (LILACS) (January 1982 to January 2010) and ClinicalTrials.gov
(http://clinicaltrials.gov). (5 January 2010). There were no language or date
restrictions in the search for trials. The electronic databases were last
searched on 5 January 2010.
SELECTION CRITERIA: This review was limited to randomized controlled trials
(RCTs) in which topical or oral treatments were used to prevent retinal ganglion 
cell death. Our population of interest was adults with OAG. As the primary
outcome for this review was the proportion of participants who developed any
progression of visual field loss at five years post intervention, only trials
with at least five years of follow-up were included.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently reviewed titles
and abstracts from the literature searches. Full text copies of relevant or
potentially relevant studies were obtained and re-evaluated for inclusion. There 
were no trials identified for this review, thus we performed no data extraction
or meta-analysis. Two studies comparing memantine to placebo are currently
awaiting classification until additional study details are provided. Reasons for 
excluding studies from the review were documented.
MAIN RESULTS: In accordance with the selection criteria for inclusion, we
identified no studies relevant for this review. The results of short-term trials 
and other studies are discussed in this review.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Although neuroprotective agents are intended to act as
pharmacological antagonists to prevent cell death, the evidence that they are
effective in preventing retinal ganglion cell death, and thus preserving vision
in patients with OAG, has not been demonstrated. Long-term RCTs are needed to
determine whether or not neuroprotective agents may be beneficial for individuals
with OAG.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006539.pub2 
PMCID: PMC3478138
PMID: 20166085  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2010 Feb;227(2):120-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1245132. Epub 
2010 Feb 12.

[Importance of the nuclear factor kappaB for the primary open angle glaucoma--a
hypothesis].

[Article in German]

Erb C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Augenheilkunde, Schlosspark-Klinik.
carl.erb@schlosspark-klinik.de

The primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is an optic neuropathy which is influenced
by a number of different risk factors. Some of them can induce the
transcriptional factor NF-kappaB, a nuclear protein which binds to specific areas
of the DNA to stimulate different genes. NF-kappaB can be activated by increased 
intraocular pressure, increased age, vascular diseases and by oxidative stress.
In the case of POAG NF-kappaB might be overstimulated with the induction of
uncontrolled biochemical reactions. Treatment strategies for reducing NF-kappaB
are to reduce intraocular pressure as well as therapies with statins,
omega-3-fatty acids and alpha-lipoic acid. This model is a hypothesis and is
intended to provide a basis for further discussions and basic research.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart, New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1245132 
PMID: 20155656  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2010 Feb;227(2):99-107. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1245171. Epub
2010 Feb 12.

[Oxidative stress in the trabecular meshwork of POAG].

[Article in German]

Welge-Lüssen U(1), Birke K.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg. ulrich.welge@uk-erlangen.de

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is defined as an optic neuropathy which is
characterised by the loss of optic nerve axons and the related retinal ganglion
cells. The reason for these changes is still unknown. In the pathogenesis of POAG
several factors like increased intraocular pressure and a reduction of ocular
blood supply are discussed. Morphological and biochemical analyses of the
trabecular meshwork (TM) of POAG patients revealed loss of cells, increased
accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM), changes in the cytoskeleton, cellular
senescence and the process of subclinical inflammation. One factor becoming more 
likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of POAG is oxidative stress. Treatment 
of TM cells with oxidative stress induced POAG-typical changes like ECM
accumulation, cell death, disarrangement of the cytoskeleton, advanced senescence
and the release of inflammatory markers. By pretreatment with antioxidants,
prostaglandin analogues, beta-blockers or local carbonic anhydrase inhibitors,
these effects were markedly reduced. In conclusion, oxidative stress is able to
induce characteristic glaucomatous TM changes in vitro and these oxidative
stress-induced TM changes can be minimised by the use of antioxidants and
IOP-lowering substances. It is tempting to speculate that prevention of oxidative
stress exposure to the TM may help to reduce the progression of POAG.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart, New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1245171 
PMID: 20155653  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Vestn Oftalmol. 2009 Nov-Dec;125(6):59-64.

[Diagnosis of circulatory disorders in the optic nerve in primary open-angle
glaucoma. Communication 2. New technologies for the imaging and evaluation of the
circulatory system in the optic nerve head].

[Article in Russian]

Kharlap SI, Kozlova IV, Vashkulatova EA.

The review details the basic principles of the optic nerve head circulation. It
analyzes the diagnostic capacities of various study methods that are both
traditional and proposed and tested in the past decade. The results of Russian
and foreign specialists' studies based on Doppler ultrasound study of the ocular 
artery, short posterior ciliary arteries, and central retinal artery are given.


PMID: 20143546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Vestn Oftalmol. 2009 Nov-Dec;125(6):55-9.

[Diagnosis of circulatory disorders in the optic nerve in primary open-angle
glaucoma. Communication 1. The circulatory system in the orbital portion of the
optic nerve and its anatomic and topographic features].

[Article in Russian]

Kharlap SI, Kozlova IV.

The review analyzes the implication of ischemia in the pathogenesis of primary
open-angle glaucoma. It gives the opinions of leading Russian and foreign
specialists who deal with this problem. The basic studies of the morphology of
the optic nerve head and its circulatory system are assessed. The specific
features of the structure of the orbital arterial system based on the types of
ocular arterial branching via formation of intraocular circulation are compared.


PMID: 20143545  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


347. J Genet. 2009 Dec;88(4):451-67.

Molecular complexity of primary open angle glaucoma: current concepts.

Ray K(1), Mookherjee S.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Human Genetic Division, Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (a 
unit of CSIR), Kolkata, India. kunalray@gmail.com

Glaucoma is a group of heterogeneous optic neuropathies with complex genetic
basis. Among the three principle subtypes of glaucoma, primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) occurs most frequently. Till date, 25 loci have been found to be 
linked to POAG. However, only three underlying genes (Myocilin, Optineurin and
WDR36) have been identified. In addition, at least 30 other genes have been
reported to be associated with POAG. Despite strong genetic influence in POAG
pathogenesis, only a small part of the disease can be explained in terms of
genetic aberration. Current concepts of glaucoma pathogenesis suggest it to be a 
neurodegenerative disorder which is triggered by different factors including
mechanical stress due to intra-ocular pressure, reduced blood flow to retina,
reperfusion injury, oxidative stress, glutamate excitotoxicity, and aberrant
immune response. Here we present a mechanistic overview of potential pathways and
crosstalk between them operating in POAG pathogenesis.


PMID: 20090207  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Adv Ther. 2009 Dec;26(12):1084-96. doi: 10.1007/s12325-009-0085-7. Epub 2010 Jan 
13.

Healthcare charges in patients with glaucoma who undergo laser trabeculoplasty.

Pasquale LR(1), Walt JG, Stern LS, Wiederkehr D, Malangone E, Dolgitser M.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Department of
Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The objective of this study was to assess the impact of laser
trabeculoplasty (LTP) on healthcare charges in patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: Using a managed care database (PharMetrics; Watertown, MA, USA), we
formed a case-control group nested within a POAG cohort (n=72,412) formed using
International Classification of Disease, Ninth Edition (ICD-9) coding data. Cases
(n=1145) had LTP (Current Procedural Terminology code: 65855) with ≥1 year of
continuous enrollment both prior to, and following LTP index date in PharMetrics 
from 1998-2005. Using the date of LTP as the index date, controls (n=2290)
without LTP were matched to cases on gender, age, and index year in a 2:1 ratio. 
Cases and controls had ≥6 months of continuous enrollment in PharMetrics prior to
receiving a diagnosis of POAG (ICD-9 code: 365.11). One-year total and
ophthalmology healthcare charges were calculated in the year pre- and post-index 
date (excluding charges for LTP at the index date). Conditional logistic
regression models and multiple linear regression models determined the impact of 
LTP on healthcare charges, while controlling for glaucoma duration and other key 
covariates.
RESULTS: While the mean age of cases (60.1±13.1 years) and controls (60.3±13.6
years) was similar (P=0.5589), cases had more comorbid systemic conditions
(P<0.05) and underwent more cataract surgery in the year after index date (4.4%
vs. 2.1%; P=0.002). In the year after index date, ophthalmology-related charges
increased by $1364 for cases vs. $30 for controls (P=0.0003). Total healthcare
charges increased by $5084 for cases and $1594 for controls in the year after
index date (P=0.0085). Cases and controls experienced similar increases in
ophthalmology-related pharmacy charges from the year pre- to the year post-index 
date ($26 vs. $43, P=0.385). In both logistic regression and linear regression
models, which adjusted for several covariates, performing LTP was associated with
increased total healthcare and ophthalmology-related charges.
CONCLUSION: Among patients with POAG in this study, performing LTP was associated
with increased total and ophthalmology-related healthcare charges, while
ophthalmology pharmacy charges did not decline.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-009-0085-7 
PMID: 20077051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Oftalmologia. 2010;54(4):3-23.

[Multifactorial molecular genetics in glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Călugăru D.

Diseases with nonmendelian, complex, polygenic or multifactorial heredity are
defined as disorders that do not exhibit a classic mendelian inheritance
attributable to a single gene but are determined by a number of genetic and
environmental factors. Glaucoma forms having a multifactorial heredity encompass 
primary open-angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma, pseudoexfoliation glaucoma,
steroid induced glaucoma and hypertensive uveitis Future directions in molecular 
genetics of glaucoma, admirably synthesized within The European Glaucoma Society 
GlaucoGENE project, comprise reviewing the genotype-phenotype correlations,
identification of the new glaucoma genes, investigating gene-environment
interactions and gene-gene interactions as well as developing a mutation database
that can be used for diagnostic and prognostic testing.


PMID: 21516857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2010 Mar;21(2):118-22. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3283360ac3.

The effect of cataract extraction on intraocular pressure.

Shrivastava A(1), Singh K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Montefiore
Medical Center, Bronx, New York, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To review the current ophthalmic literature regarding the
impact of modern cataract surgery on intraocular pressure (IOP).
RECENT FINDINGS: Many articles in the literature demonstrate a modest,
long-lasting decrease in IOP following phacoemulsification and posterior chamber 
intraocular lens implantation in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and
ocular hypertension. The mechanism of this average pressure-lowering effect has
yet to be elucidated. The IOP reductions obtained in patients with angle closure 
glaucoma are often more pronounced than those seen in patients with open angles. 
Patients with higher levels of preoperative IOP obtain greater average reductions
in IOP, although this phenomenon may partially be explained by a statistical
effect known as regression to the mean.
SUMMARY: Although it is well recognized that phacoemulsification may result in a 
modest sustained reduction in IOP, there are several limitations in the studies
that have assessed the magnitude of this effect. The implications of such IOP
reduction with cataract surgery on the medical and surgical algorithms for care
in patients with open-angle glaucoma and coexistent cataract remain unclear. In
contrast, the substantial benefits of cataract surgery in patients with acute and
chronic angle-closure glaucoma have been well studied and are generally widely
accepted. An improved understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of IOP
lowering after cataract extraction may help us better predict which patients are 
most likely to benefit from simple cataract extraction, obviating the need for
combined cataract and glaucoma surgical procedures in such circumstances.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3283360ac3 
PMID: 20040874  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Curr Med Res Opin. 2010 Mar;26(3):511-28. doi: 10.1185/03007990903498786.

Mixed treatment comparison and meta-regression of the efficacy and safety of
prostaglandin analogues and comparators for primary open-angle glaucoma and
ocular hypertension.

Orme M(1), Collins S, Dakin H, Kelly S, Loftus J.

Author information: 
(1)Abacus International, Bicester, Oxfordshire, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a chronic condition
characterised by optic neuropathy and vision loss. Elevated intraocular pressure 
(IOP) can damage the optic nerve and is a risk factor for glaucoma, thus
treatment usually comprises topical hypotensives. This analysis aims to address
methodological issues associated with the synthesis of glaucoma clinical trial
data, given variations in study methodology and IOP measurement.
METHODS: Meta-regression was used to estimate how IOP varies over time for
patients receiving treatment. Relative treatment effects were assessed using a
random-effects mixed treatment comparison (MTC) in order to preserve
randomisation and avoid selection bias. To produce clinically meaningful outputs,
these analyses were combined to obtain the mean on-treatment IOP and the
proportion of patients achieving different IOP targets at different time points. 
A further MTC estimated the probability of hyperaemia events.
RESULTS: The analysis showed that after 3 months' treatment, between 58 and 83%
of patients will have a > or =20% reduction in IOP and 70-93% of patients will
have an absolute IOP <20 mmHg. Latanoprost and bimatoprost were found to produce 
significantly lower on-treatment IOP compared with timolol (p < 0.05); the
difference between latanoprost and bimatoprost was not significant. Travoprost
produced a lower mean IOP compared with timolol (not significant).
Latanoprost-timolol was found to produce significantly lower IOP than latanoprost
alone or beta-blockers. The probability of hyperaemia-type events varied between 
treatments from 14.8 to 63.03%. Latanoprost had significantly lower odds of
hyperaemia than travoprost, bimatoprost, travoprost-timolol, or
bimatoprost-timolol.
CONCLUSION: This analysis suggests that latanoprost and bimatoprost produce a
statistically significant reduction in IOP compared with timolol, but are
associated with a higher risk of hyperaemia. Out of all the prostaglandins,
latanoprost may achieve a good balance between tolerability and IOP efficacy. As 
with all forms of meta-analysis, the results are based on the assumption that the
studies and intervention groupings are sufficiently similar to be compared.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990903498786 
PMID: 20014995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Acta Ophthalmol. 2010 Feb;88(1):70-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2009.01786.x. Epub
2009 Dec 16.

Systemic disease associations of familial and sporadic glaucoma: the Glaucoma
Inheritance Study in Tasmania.

Hewitt AW(1), Wu J, Green CM, Lai T, Kearns LS, Craig JE, Mackey DA.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital,
Melbourne, Australia. hewitt.alex@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: This aim of this study was to compare the prevalence of various
disease-associated and potentially modifiable risk factors between people with
familial and sporadic forms of primary open angle glaucoma (OAG).
METHODS: A cross-sectional, retrospective study design was utilized. A detailed
questionnaire enquiring about knowledge of family history, demographic data,
current medications, and medical history of systemic disorders was administered. 
Where possible, living relatives were examined for signs of OAG.
RESULTS: A total of 3,800 potential patients with OAG were identified, of whom
2062 were examined. One thousand twelve (59.5%) subjects were found to have
familial OAG, and 688 (40.5%) subjects had no known or identified relative with
OAG (sporadic glaucoma). One thousand forty-two unaffected family members
examined. A past history of migraine was found more often with familial OAG (OR: 
1.67 95% CI: 1.15-2.42). This effect was primarily driven by patients who had a
first-degree relative also affected by OAG. Following adjustment for male gender 
and the age at review, the presence of atherosclerosis was also found to be more 
common in patients with familial glaucoma than in people with sporadic disease
(OR: 1.42 95% CI: 1.05-1.92). No significant difference in the prevalence of
hypertension, Raynaud's phenomenon, diabetes mellitus or thyroid disease was
identified.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with a known relative affected by OAG were statistically
significantly more likely to have a past history for migraine or presence of
atherosclerosis compared to people with no known affected relative. An
understanding of such differences and systemic comorbidities will be useful for
further work investigating the underlying molecular mechanisms of this disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2009.01786.x 
PMID: 19958295  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2009 Dec;10(17):2859-70. doi:
10.1517/14656560903300129.

Pharmacotherapy of intraocular pressure - part II. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors,
prostaglandin analogues and prostamides.

Costagliola C(1), dell'Omo R, Romano MR, Rinaldi M, Zeppa L, Parmeggiani F.

Author information: 
(1)Università degli Studi del Molise, Dipartmento di Scienze per Salute, Via F De
Sanctis, 86100 Campobasso, Italy. ciro.costagliola@unimol.it

The second part of this two part review (please see Expert Opinion on
Pharmacotherapy 10(16)) reports the characteristics of other antiglaucoma
medications: systemic (acetazomide) and topical (dorzolamide and brinzolamide)
carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, which suppress aqueous humour formation; and
prostaglandin analogues (latanoprost and travoprost) and prostamides
(bimatoprost), which raise aqueous humour outflow. The pharmacologic properties
of each compound and its efficacy in the medical treatment of glaucoma, mainly
the primary open-angle form, are discussed briefly, focusing on the clinical
evidence supporting their use.

DOI: 10.1517/14656560903300129 
PMID: 19929706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2009 Oct;84(10):491-500.

[New developments in glaucoma medical treatment].

[Article in Spanish]

Muñoz-Negrete FJ(1), Pérez-López M, Won Kim HR, Rebolleda G.

Author information: 
(1)Sección de Glaucoma del Servicio de Oftalmología del Hospital Ramón y Cajal,
España. franciscojmunoz@telefonica.net

The medical treatment of glaucoma has undergone significant development in recent
years. Research in this field is focused on improving pre-existing drugs and on
the development of new molecules. In relation to commercial drugs, there is a
trend to improve local tolerance, using less toxic preservatives as in the case
of sofZIA in travoprost, and eliminating the preservatives as in tafluprost. The 
development of new, fixed combinations of commercial drugs could also enhance
their administration and therapeutic compliance. There is also intense research
activity in the search for new therapeutic groups for glaucoma treatment. Calcium
channel-blockers such as lomerizine do not seem to affect systemic hypotension,
while topical calcium-blockers like flunarizine and iganidipine are also under
research. Endothelin 1 antagonists such as sulfisoxazole and bunazosine could be 
also useful in the treatment of glaucoma. In the renin angiotensin system,
angiotensin (1-7) and olmesartan are under investigation for use in glaucoma
patients. Trabecular drugs such as Rho-kinase inhibitors could be effective on
the pathogenic mechanism of primary open angle glaucoma. Finally, topical
mifepristone, an antagonist of glucocorticoid receptors, is under evaluation for 
corticosteroid-induced elevated intraocular pressure (Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol 2009;
84: 491-500).


PMID: 19902393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Oftalmologia. 2009;53(3):15-33.

[Steroid induced ocular hypertension and glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Călugăru D, Călugăru M.

Steroid induced ocular hypertension and glaucoma represent iatrogenic changes of 
pharmacogenic nature. They are mainly due to exogenous steroids following ocular 
periocular, intravitreal and systemic administration. Elevated ocular pressure is
brought about by structural trabecular changes as well as obstruction of the
outflow ways of the aqueous humor localized within the trabecular
juxtacanalicular area. Although mostly raised ocular pressure spontaneously
descends to basal values after ceasing the steroid therapy, progressive optic
nerve damages and glaucomatous visual field defects may occur. Therapy of steroid
induced ocular hypertension and glaucoma is similar to that of ocular
hypertension and primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 19899544  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Am J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jan;149(1):32-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2009.07.036. Epub 2009 
Oct 28.

The vitreous gel: more than meets the eye.

Holekamp NM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, Barnes Retina Institute, St Louis, Missouri 63144, USA.
nholekamp@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To reexamine the role of the vitreous gel in ocular health and disease
based on recent information in the ophthalmic literature.
DESIGN: Perspective.
METHODS: Review, analysis, and discussion of the implications of selected
pertinent literature.
RESULTS: A new understanding of the vitreous gel is emerging, placing it central 
to many disease processes affecting the eye, including diabetic retinopathy,
retinal vein occlusion, age-related macular degeneration, nuclear sclerotic
cataract, and primary open-angle glaucoma. The vitreous gel recently has been
found to have the important function of oxygen regulation and distribution within
the eye. As the gel undergoes age-related liquefaction or surgical removal this
function is impaired. The resultant elevated intraocular oxygen tension likely
proves beneficial for vascular endothelial growth factor-mediated retinal
diseases. However, it may lead to oxidative stress within the eye and may
contribute to disease states such as nuclear cataract and primary open-angle
glaucoma.
CONCLUSIONS: An intact gel vitreous is central to a healthy human eye. We now
understand that age-related liquefaction of the vitreous gel accompanies several 
age-related ocular diseases. The field of ophthalmology would benefit from future
research to understand age-related vitreous liquefaction and to identify its
cause.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2009.07.036 
PMID: 19875090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2009 Nov;10(16):2663-77. doi:
10.1517/14656560903300103.

Pharmacotherapy of intraocular pressure: part I. Parasympathomimetic,
sympathomimetic and sympatholytics.

Costagliola C(1), dell'Omo R, Romano MR, Rinaldi M, Zeppa L, Parmeggiani F.

Author information: 
(1)Università degli Studi del Molise, Dipartmento di Scienze per la Salute, Via F
De Sanctis, 86100 Campobasso, Italy. ciro.costagliola@unimol.it

Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) has been recognized as the major risk factor 
for the development of glaucoma and a wide range of options are now available to 
reduce it: medical treatment, laser, filtering, or cyclodestructive surgery
(alone or in combination). All these modalities act by decreasing eye pressure
and, thereby, protecting the optic nerve head from a mechanic direct and/or
vascular indirect insult. Topical medical therapy represents the first-choice
treatment and, in most cases, it effectively controls IOP, avoiding the
occurrence of further optic nerve damage. All medications lower IOP in two main
ways: decreasing the production of aqueous humour or by increasing its outflow
from the eye. Consequently, antiglaucoma drugs either suppress aqueous humour
formation (beta-adrenergic antagonists, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, and
alpha-2-adrenergic agonists) or raise aqueous humour outflow throughout the
conventional (e.g., pilocarpine) or uveoscleral (prostaglandin FP receptor
agonists, and prostamides) route. In addition, fixed and unfixed combinations of 
antiglaucoma compounds have also been available for patients requiring more than 
one type of medication. This review, which is part one of two (please see Expert 
Opinion on Pharmacotherapy 10 (17)) briefly considers the characteristics of
sympathomimetic, sympatholytics and parasympathomimetic commonly employed in the 
medical treatment of glaucoma, mainly the primary open-angle form, focusing the
discussion on the clinical evidence supporting the use of these three classes of 
compound.

DOI: 10.1517/14656560903300103 
PMID: 19874249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Surv Ophthalmol. 2010 Jan-Feb;55(1):64-77. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2009.03.006.

Glaucoma and systemic diseases.

Salim S(1), Shields MB.

Author information: 
(1)Hamilton Eye Institute, University of Tennessee Health Science Center,
Memphis, Tennessee, USA.

Glaucoma management may be extremely challenging, especially in elderly patients 
who have a variety of systemic diseases and take multiple medications. We
obtained a comprehensive medical history in patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma to determine which systemic diseases are most prevalent and which
systemic medications are most commonly used. We have also reviewed the literature
that addresses how these concomitant diseases and medical treatments influence
the management of glaucoma. Knowledge of systemic diseases and potential drug
interactions, especially between various systemic and glaucoma medications, is
important for the safe management of glaucoma patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2009.03.006 
PMID: 19833365  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Vestn Oftalmol. 2009 Jul-Aug;125(4):40-4.

[Current methods for monitoring primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Kazarian EE.

This paper presents an analytical survey of the Russian and foreign literature
dealing with the current idea on the pathology of a glaucomatous process and
methods for the early diagnosis of glaucoma. It gives data on the impact of
intraocular pressure, central corneal thickness and ocular biomechanical
properties on the pathogenesis of primary open-angle and normotensive glaucoma.
The results of electrophysiological, psychophysiological, ultrasound, and
morphometric studies were assessed in the diagnosis of primary open-angle
glaucoma.


PMID: 19824448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Ophthalmology. 2009 Nov;116(11):2101-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.04.045. Epub
2009 Sep 10.

Variable expressivity and high penetrance of CYP1B1 mutations associated with
primary congenital glaucoma.

Suri F(1), Yazdani S, Narooie-Nejhad M, Zargar SJ, Paylakhi SH, Zeinali S,
Pakravan M, Elahi E.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology, University College of Science, University of Tehran,
Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate penetrance and expressivity of CYP1B1 genotypes
associated with primary congenital glaucoma (PCG).
DESIGN: Observational case series, systematic review, and comparative analysis of
the literature.
PARTICIPANTS: Forty probands affected with PCG, 16 siblings affected with PCG,
and 103 siblings and 75 parents of the probands reported not to be affected by
history. The participants were members of 40 unrelated families.
METHODS: Mutations were screened by restriction fragment length polymorphism,
allele-specific polymerase chain reaction amplification, and direct sequencing.
Ophthalmologic examination included slit-lamp biomicroscopy, intraocular pressure
(IOP) measurement, gonioscopy, and high magnification stereoscopic fundus
examination, followed by standard achromatic perimetry.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Identification of subjects carrying CYP1B1 mutations.
Glaucoma diagnosis based on slit-lamp examination, IOP measurement, gonioscopic
findings, optic nerve appearance, and perimetry.
RESULTS: Fifteen different homozygous or compound heterozygous mutant CYP1B1
genotypes were identified. Most probands and previously diagnosed subjects
harbored G61E, R368H, R390H, and R469W mutations. Among the 178 apparently
unaffected family members, 20 subjects from 12 families were observed to harbor 2
CYP1B1 mutations, suggesting an average penetrance of 73% for all the mutations. 
These 20 subjects ranged in age from 14 to 54 years. R390H appeared to have a
notably high penetrance. Penetrance was 50% in the subset of families with
incomplete penetrance. Ophthalmologic examination on 14 of the 20 apparently
nonpenetrant individuals showed that 8 subjects were affected with juvenile
open-angle glaucoma (JOAG) or primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and that 3
subjects were glaucoma suspect. One of the individuals with a JOAG diagnosis was 
the identical twin sibling of a proband affected with PCG.
CONCLUSIONS: At least 57% of the PCG nonpenetrant individuals examined clinically
were affected with JOAG or POAG to varying degrees, and overall penetrance of
"affected CYP1B1 genotypes" with respect to glaucoma may be more than 90%. These 
findings suggest that "affected CYP1B1 genotypes" exhibit variable expressivity
rather than nonpenetrance. The clinical implication of this observation is that
seemingly unaffected relatives of patients with PCG, particularly those known to 
harbor CYP1B1 mutations, should undergo regular ophthalmologic examination to
allow early diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.04.045 
PMID: 19744731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


361. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2009 Sep;35(9):1623-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2009.05.015.

Incorporating corneal pachymetry into the management of glaucoma.

Iester M(1), Mete M, Figus M, Frezzotti P.

Author information: 
(1)Anatomical-Clinical Laboratory for Functional Diagnosis and Treatment of
Glaucoma and Neuroophthalmology, Clinica Oculistica, Department of Neurological
Sciences, Ophthalmology, Genetic, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.
iester@unige.it

Intraocular pressure (IOP) results from a dynamic balance between aqueous humor
formation and outflow. The simplest technique to measure IOP is indentation
tonometry. Another technique is applanation. These methods are related to the
elasticity of the eye, which mainly depends on its thickness and hysteresis. For 
several decades, Goldmann applanation tonometry has been the most accepted method
of measuring IOP; the Goldmann tonometer is still used in all important trials.
The relationship between IOP values and central corneal thickness (CCT) is well
known; Goldmann stated that this relationship only holds for an average corneal
thickness of 520 microm measured by optical pachymetry. The Ocular Hypertension
Treatment Study (OHTS) showed that CCT is an important risk factor for a change
from ocular hypertension to primary open-angle glaucoma. In a multivariate model 
that included IOP, CCT was the most powerful component of the predictive model.
In the Early Manifest Glaucoma Trial (EMGT) with an 11-year follow-up, CCT was a 
significant predictive factor for glaucoma progression in patients with higher
baseline IOP but not in those with lower baseline IOP. Clinical trials such as
the OHTS and EMGT cannot prove that CCT is linked to a risk for glaucoma on a
biological level. Thus, in eyes with glaucoma, IOP must be treated because it has
a significant influence on progression of glaucoma, regardless of the baseline
IOP and CCT.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2009.05.015 
PMID: 19683164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


362. J Glaucoma. 2009 Aug;18(6):423-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31818d3899.

Lifestyle, nutrition, and glaucoma.

Pasquale LR(1), Kang JH.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, MA 
02114, USA. Louis_Pasquale@meei.harvard.edu

The only proven strategy to prevent primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is the use
of ocular hypotensive therapy among people diagnosed with ocular hypertension. In
this review, various modifiable lifestyle factors, such as exercise, diet, and
cigarette smoking, that may influence intraocular pressure and that have been
studied in relation to the risk of developing POAG are discussed. Epidemiologic
studies on lifestyle factors are few, and the current evidence suggests that
there are no environmental factors that are clearly associated with POAG;
however, a few factors merit further study. This review also outlines future
directions for research into the primary prevention of POAG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31818d3899 
PMCID: PMC2727664
PMID: 19680048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Ophthalmic Res. 2009;42(4):176-84. doi: 10.1159/000232400. Epub 2009 Aug 7.

Optineurin and its mutants: molecules associated with some forms of glaucoma.

Chalasani ML(1), Swarup G, Balasubramanian D.

Author information: 
(1)Hyderabad Eye Research Foundation, L V Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, India.

AIMS: Optineurin is a gene (OPTN) associated with normal-tension glaucoma and
primary open-angle glaucoma. The aim of our study is to understand the functions 
of the protein optineurin in retinal ganglion cells, and the modifications that
come about in its functions when mutations occur in its sequence.
METHODS: We have worked with the rat retinal ganglion cell line RGC5, as well as 
with some others such as HeLa (human cancer cell line), COS-1 (monkey kidney cell
line), IMR-32 (human neuroblastoma cell line), and D407 (human retinal pigment
epithelial cell line). The cDNAs of wild-type OPTN, and of its mutants H26D,
E50K, R454Q and H486R, were transfected into each of these cell lines and the
effects studied. Localization of the proteins in cells was monitored by confocal 
microscopy and cell imaging, and their interaction with other cellular proteins
by yeast two-hybrid assay and co-immunoprecipitation.
RESULTS: We found optineurin to interact with several proteins, which are
involved in NF-kappaB regulation, vesicular trafficking at recycling endosomes,
immune response and transcription regulation. Some of these proteins showed
altered/reduced interactions with E50K and H486R mutants. E50K, a severe
phenotype-related mutant of optineurin, was found to selectively kill RGC5 cells 
through oxytosis and apoptosis, while none of the other mutants did so.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that several independent mechanisms are likely 
to be involved in the pathogenesis of glaucoma caused by mutations in optineurin.

2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000232400 
PMID: 19672125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Clin Ophthalmol. 2008 Sep;2(3):517-23.

Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension: a review of its pharmacology and use in the
treatment of open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Iester M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Oculistica, University of Genoa, Viale Benedetto XV, 16132 Genova,
Italy. iester@unige.it

Brinzolamide is a white powder commercially formulated as a 1% ophthalmic
suspension to reduce intraocular pressure (IOP). Pharmacologically, brinzolamide 
is a highly specific, non-competitive, reversible, and effective inhibitor of
carbonic anhydrase II (CA-II), able to suppress formation of aqueous humor in the
eye and thus to decrease IOP. Several clinical trials have evaluated its safety
and the most commonly ocular adverse events are blurred vision (3%-8%), ocular
discomfort (1.8%-5.9%), and eye pain (0.7%-4.0%). Brinzolamide has been
introduced to treat ocular hypertension and primary open-angle glaucoma. In some 
clinical studies it has been estimated that brinzolamide reduced IOP by was about
18%. Brinzolamide can be added to beta-blockers and prostaglandins. In the latter
combination, because prostaglandin derivatives improve the uveoscleral outflow
but also increase the activity of CA in ciliary epithelium with a secondary
increase in aqueous humor secretion, and slightly reduce the efficacy of
prostaglandin analogues, theoretically topical CA inhibitors (CAI) decrease IOP
by inhibiting CA-II, thus improving prostaglandin efficacy as well as lowering
IOP. Brinzolamide could have a secondary possible effect on ocular flow too. Some
clinical studies showed a mild improvement of ocular blood flow. Theoretically,
CAI could give rise to metabolic acidosis, with secondary vasodilatation and
improvement of blood flow. Systemic acidosis can occur in the setting of oral CAI
therapy, and local acidosis within ocular tissues is theoretically possible with 
topical CAI therapy, with the potential for a local increase in ocular blood
flow. In conclusion, topical CAI treatment has efficacy in IOP-lowering ranging
from 15% to 20%. From published data, brinzolamide can be used as first-line
medication, even if other medications have a higher efficacy, with few side
effects and it is a good adjunctive treatment. In some type of glaucoma patients 
with a vascular dysregulation, topical CAI could have a double effect: reducing
IOP and improving ocular blood flow.


PMCID: PMC2694021
PMID: 19668749  [PubMed]


365. Clin Ophthalmol. 2008 Dec;2(4):849-61.

Dysfunctional regulation of ocular blood flow: A risk factor for glaucoma?

Moore D(1), Harris A, Wudunn D, Kheradiya N, Siesky B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, IN, USA.

Primary open angle glaucoma (OAG) is a multifactorial optic neuropathy
characterized by progressive retinal ganglion cell death and associated visual
field loss. OAG is an emerging disease with increasing costs and negative
outcomes, yet its fundamental pathophysiology remains largely undetermined. A
major treatable risk factor for glaucoma is elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). 
Despite the medical lowering of IOP, however, some glaucoma patients continue to 
experience disease progression and subsequent irreversible vision loss. The
scientific community continues to accrue evidence suggesting that alterations in 
ocular blood flow play a prominent role in OAG disease processes. This article
develops the thesis that dysfunctional regulation of ocular blood flow may
contribute to glaucomatous optic neuropathy. Evidence suggests that impaired
vascular autoregulation renders the optic nerve head susceptible to decreases in 
ocular perfusion pressure, increases in IOP, and/or increased local metabolic
demands. Ischemic damage, which likely contributes to further impairment in
autoregulation, results in changes to the optic nerve head consistent with
glaucoma. Included in this review are discussions of conditions thought to
contribute to vascular regulatory dysfunction in OAG, including atherosclerosis, 
vasospasm, and endothelial dysfunction.


PMCID: PMC2699797
PMID: 19668439  [PubMed]


366. Acta Ophthalmol. 2009 Aug;87(5):478-87. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2009.01635.x.

From epidemiology to lysyl oxidase like one (LOXL1) polymorphisms discovery:
phenotyping and genotyping exfoliation syndrome and exfoliation glaucoma in
Iceland.

Jonasson F(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Iceland, Landspitali, Reykjavik, Iceland.
fridbert@landspitali.is

The first Icelandic articles on exfoliation syndrome (XFS) and exfoliation
glaucoma (XFG) appeared some 35 years ago in 1974. Articles since then have
included epidemiology, pedigree-based and twin-studies as well as investigations 
into XFG response to medical therapy and XFS/XFG genetics. All studies found
XFS/XFG to be common in Iceland and to be age-related. The Reykjavik Eye Study
(RES), a population-based epidemiological study, was first conducted in 1996. The
RES found that XFS and XFG prevalence in patients aged 50 years and older was 11%
and that XFS/XFG was more common in women than in men. These results were
confirmed in 5- and 12-year incidence studies that also suggested that detailed
characterization of the phenotype is important, including pupil dilation. In the 
RES, eyes with XFS were found to be clinically unilateral in about half of cases 
and to have higher mean intraocular pressure (IOP) than non-XFS eyes. However,
XFS was not found to be associated with central corneal thickness, corneal
curvature, anterior chamber depth, lens thickness, lens opacification or optic
disc morphology. About 15% of persons with XFS had XFG, and XFG eyes had higher
risk of developing visual impairment and blindness than eyes with primary
open-angle glaucoma. The first genetic studies on Icelanders, conducted about 12 
years ago, were linkage studies and were unsuccessful in discovering the genetics
behind XFS/XFG. However, in 2007 a genome-wide association study in Iceland using
more than 300 000 markers [single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)] on a
relatively small number of patients did discover that lysyl oxidase like 1
(LOXL1) on chromosome 15q24 is a major gene for XFS/XFG. These results have now
largely been replicated world-wide.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2009.01635.x 
PMID: 19664108  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Curr Ther Res Clin Exp. 2009 Aug;70(4):335-50. doi:
10.1016/j.curtheres.2009.08.006.

Effects of travoprost in the treatment of open-angle glaucoma or ocular
hypertension: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Cheng JW(1), Xi GL(2), Wei RL(1), Cai JP(1), Li Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital, Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai, China. (2)Center for New Drug Evaluation, Second
Military Medical University, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: A 2005 meta-analysis suggests that lowering intraocular pressure
(IOP) in patients with ocular hypertension (OHT) or open-angle glaucoma (OAG) is 
beneficial in reducing the risk for visual field loss in the long term.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this meta-analysis was to compare the efficacy and
toler-ability of travoprost and latanoprost in patients with OAG or OHT.
METHODS: Pertinent studies published from 1996 to 2008 were identified using
systematic searches of major literature databases, including the Cochrane
Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Chinese Biomedicine Database. Internet searches
of major search engines, professional associations' Web sites, and manufacturers'
databases were also performed. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing the 
effects of travoprost 0.004% and latanoprost 0.005% in patients with OAG or OHT
were selected. The primary efficacy measure was the weighted mean difference
(WMD) in the IOP reduction (IOPR). The primary tolerability measure was the
relative risk (RR) for adverse events. The pooled effects were calculated using
the random-effects model.
RESULTS: Seventeen studies (1491 patients) were included in the meta-analysis, 4 
of which were of poor quality based on Jadad scoring. Travoprost was associated
with significantly greater diurnal mean IOPRs compared with latanoprost at 2
weeks and 2 months (WMDs [95% CI] mm Hg: 2 weeks, 1.47 [0.33 to 2.62]; 2 months, 
0.71 [0.04 to 1.38]); these values were not significant at 1 (0.81 [-0.78 to
2.40]), 3 (0.01 [-0.50 to 0.52]), and 6 months (0.27 [-0.40 to 0.95]). When the 4
studies of low quality were excluded, no significant treatment differences in
diurnal IOPR were found. IOPR measured at 5 pm was significantly greater with
travoprost compared with latanoprost at 2 weeks (WMD [95% CI], 0.87 mm Hg [0.40
to 1.33]); these values were not significant at 1 (WMD [95% CI], 0.60 mm Hg [0.00
to 1.20], 2 (0.65 [-0.69 to 1.99]), 3 (0.04 [-0.51 to 0.59]), 6 (0.00 [-0.68 to
0.68]), and 12 months (0.30 [-0.36 to 0.96]). Travoprost was associated with a
significantly greater frequency of hyperemia than was latanoprost (RR = 1.72 [95%
CI, 1.33 to 2.23]). Rates of serious ocular adverse events did not differ
significantly between travoprost and latanoprost (cystoid macular edema: RR =
0.22 [95% CI, 0.03 to 1.76]; cataract: RR = 2.29 [95% CI, 0.90 to 5.83]).
CONCLUSIONS: The findings from the present meta-analysis of these 17 RCTs suggest
that there were no significant differences between travoprost and latanoprost in 
IOPR in these patients with OHT or OAG. Both agents were generally well
tolerated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.curtheres.2009.08.006 
PMCID: PMC3967344
PMID: 24683242  [PubMed]


368. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2009 Apr;45(4):380-4.

[Risk factors and the progress of primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang L(1), Xu L, Yang H.

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing
Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing 100005, China.

The risk factors related to the progress of glaucoma have been investigated and
revealed the involvement of the systemic factors and ocular factors that include 
intraocular pressure (IOP) and non-IOP factors. Multi-center randomized studies
have demonstrated that IOP is an important risk factor in the development of
ocular hypertension (OHT) to the onset of POAG or POAG progress. These large
scale randomized clinical trials indicate that the only effective way to delay
the deterioration of progressive optic neuropathy is to low IOP. Establishing a
target IOP, reducing IOP, and especially controlling nocturnal IOP fluctuation
are important measures for the prevention of glaucoma progress. While non-IOP
risk factors come from age, central corneal thickness (CCT), duration of optic
disc hemorrhage, the degree of severity of glaucoma and glaucoma in both eyes.
The risk factors affecting glaucoma have also been found in patients with myopia,
family history of glaucoma, low ocular perfusion pressure, systemic hypotension, 
cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, systemic hypertension, and high 
blood cholesterol. The efforts to study the glaucoma risk factors offer insight
into the etiology and clinical development processes of glaucoma and provide an
improved therapeutic strategy for glaucomatous.


PMID: 19575977  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2009 Feb;45(2):184-8.

[Implication of the measurement of central corneal thickness in management of
glaucoma patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang SH(1), Zhao JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese
Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100730, China.

OBJECTIVE: Intraocular pressure (IOP) is a elementary data in diagnosis and
therapy of glaucoma. Many studies have confirmed that most tonometry, including
Goldmann applanation tonometry, are influenced by central corneal thickness (CCT)
and CCT varies greatly among the general population. As a result, the measurement
of CCT has a great implication in management of glaucoma. Further, CCT is
confirmed a risk factor for progression from ocular hypertension to primary open 
angle glaucoma. The idea of that CCT may bear an inverse relation with the risk
for developing glaucoma damage is in debating. Many specialists bring forward
that CCT measurement should be one of the regular examinations in treatment of
glaucoma patients.


PMID: 19573345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Ophthalmic Res. 2009;42(2):99-105. doi: 10.1159/000225963. Epub 2009 Jun 23.

Systematic review of intraocular pressure-lowering effects of adjunctive
medications added to latanoprost.

Cheng JW(1), Li Y, Wei RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital, Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai 200003, China.

Comment in
    Ophthalmic Res. 2010;44(2):140.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering effects of
adjunctive medications when added to 0.005% latanoprost taken once daily.
METHODS: Pertinent publications were identified through systematic searches of
PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register. Randomized clinical 
trials with over 85% of patients presenting with primary open-angle glaucoma or
ocular hypertension who were treated with the combination treatment of
latanoprost were selected. The pooled additional IOP-lowering effects at 1-3
months after a run-in phase of at least 2 weeks on 0.005% latanoprost once daily 
were calculated using the random effects model.
RESULTS: Nine randomized clinical trials were included. The mean pooled IOP
reductions were 3.3 mm Hg (95% CI: 2.1-4.5) at trough and 4.4 mm Hg (95% CI:
3.4-5.4) at peak when adding 0.5% timolol once daily, 2.6 mm Hg (95% CI: 1.9-3.3)
at trough and 3.8 mm Hg (95% CI: 2.5-5.2) at peak when adding 0.1/0.15%
brimonidine twice daily, 2.6 mm Hg (95% CI: 1.7-3.4) at trough and 3.1 mm Hg (95%
CI: 2.6-3.6) at peak when adding 2% dorzolamide twice daily, 2.4 mm Hg (95% CI:
2.0 -2.8) at trough and 2.7 mm Hg (95% CI: 2.2-3.2) at peak when adding 0.5%
timolol twice daily, and 2.8 mm Hg (95% CI: 1.5-4.1) at trough and 1.8 mm Hg (95%
CI: 1.2-2.3) at peak when adding 1% brinzolamide twice daily.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of brimonidine, dorzolamide, timolol, or brinzolamide
can further lower IOP in eyes being treated with latanoprost. Timolol 0.5% once
daily might be the most effective adjunctive medication.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000225963 
PMID: 19546601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Recent Pat Drug Deliv Formul. 2009 Nov;3(3):229-65.

Current ocular drug delivery challenges for N-acetylcarnosine: novel patented
routes and modes of delivery, design for enhancement of therapeutic activity and 
drug delivery relationships.

Babizhayev MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Innovative Vision Products, Inc., 3511 Silverside Road, County of New Castle, 
Delaware USA. markbabizhayev@yahoo.com

This review article explores the functional activity and development aspects of
N-acetylcarnosine for the visual system as revealed by the use of a variety of
biophysical, physiological and therapeutic ophthalmic methods. It is designed for
pharmacists and more advanced ophthalmology, optometry and pharmacology
researchers who wish to gain a basic understanding of the biological effects of
N-acetylcarnosine for vision and to share in the excitement of the latest
developments in this field. Topics under the consideration include: ophthalmic
drug delivery of N-acetylcarnosine eye drops and challenging endeavors facing the
pharmaceutical scientist; clinical and functional types of activity of the
developed and patented N-acetylcarnosine lubricant eye drops designed as 1%
N-acetylcarnosine prodrug of L-carnosine containing a mucoadhesive
cellulose-based compound combined with corneal absorption promoters in a drug
delivery system; management of age-related serious or disabling eye diseases in
humans with N-acetylcarnosine eye drop therapeutic platform (age-related
cataracts, ocular inflammation, age-related macular degeneration , macular
dystrophies, ocular manifestations of diabetes , hypertonic retinopathy, primary 
open angle glaucoma, vitreous lesions) ; development and molecular mechanisms of 
ocular therapeutic activities of carnosine derivatives in the visual system.
Through this article we can perceive some helpful recent patents according to the
title of the issue. The biologically significant applications of carnosine
mimetics including those in ophthalmology were patented by Dr. Babizhayev and the
alliance Groups (WO 2004/028536 A1; WO 94/19325; WO 95/12581; WO 2004/064866 A1).


PMID: 19534670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Klin Oczna. 2009;111(1-3):75-9.

[Autonomic nervous system and primary open angle glaucoma--pathogenetic and
clinical correlations].

[Article in Polish]

Wierzbowska J(1), Wierzbowski R, Stankiewicz A, Robaszkiewicz J.

Author information: 
(1)Z Kliniki Okulistycznej Wojskowego Instytutu Medycznego w Warszawie.
joanna.wierzbowska@gmail.com

Primary open angle glaucoma is linked to autonomic nervous system dysfunction. In
a review the role of autonomic nervous system as an important determinant of
systemic hemodynamic parameters such as heart rate and blood pressure, was
presented. Human circadian clock and its impact on autonomic nervous system was
emphasized. Finally some autonomic function tests and therapeutical implications 
were described.


PMID: 19517852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Ophthalmology. 2009 Aug;116(8):1461-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.02.017. Epub
2009 Jun 4.

Nine-year incidence of visual impairment in the Barbados Eye Studies.

Hennis AJ(1), Wu SY, Nemesure B, Hyman L, Schachat AP, Leske MC; Barbados Eye
Studies Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Stony Brook University School of Medicine, 
Stony Brook, New York, USA. anselm.hennis@cavehill.uwi.edu

OBJECTIVE: To describe the 9-year incidence of visual impairment and primary
causes of blindness among black participants of the Barbados Eye Studies (BES).
DESIGN: Population-based prospective cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: The BES followed a nationally representative cohort selected by
simple random sampling, aged 40 to 84 years at baseline, with reexaminations
after 4 years (Barbados Incidence Study of Eye Diseases [BISED]) and 9 years
(BISED II). BISED II included 2793 (81%) of those eligible.
METHODS: Cumulative 9-year incidence rates were estimated by the Product-Limit
approach. The study was reviewed and approved by the institutional review boards 
of collaborating institutions.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Best-corrected visual acuity (VA) was assessed by the
Ferris-Bailey chart, following a modified Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy
Study protocol. Low vision and blindness were defined by World Health
Organization (WHO) criteria as VA <6/18 to 6/120, and <6/120, respectively, in
the better eye, and by U.S. criteria as VA < or =20/40 and < or =20/200,
respectively. Vision loss was defined as a decrease of 15 letters or more read
correctly in the better eye between baseline and follow-up examinations.
RESULTS: The 9-year incidence was 1.0% and 2.1% for blindness and 6.0% and 9.0%
for low vision, by WHO and U.S. criteria, respectively. Older age at baseline was
associated with higher incidence of low vision and blindness, reaching 23.0% (95%
confidence interval [CI], 18.8-28.0) and 4.3% (95% CI, 2.7-6.9) at age 70 years
or more, based on WHO criteria. The primary causes of incident bilateral
blindness (U.S. criteria) in 126 eyes were age-related cataract (48.3%),
open-angle glaucoma (OAG) (14.3%), combined cataract and OAG (6.3%), diabetic
retinopathy (8.7%), and optic atrophy (7.1%). Age-related macular degeneration
(2.4%) rarely caused blindness.
CONCLUSIONS: Incident visual impairment is exceedingly high in this population.
Cataract, OAG, and diabetic retinopathy remain the major causes of blindness,
underpinning the clinical and public health significance of these conditions in
this and similar populations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.02.017 
PMCID: PMC2762108
PMID: 19500851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2009 Jan;45(1):5-7.

[Glaucoma surgery in China: problems and solutions].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun XH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eye & ENT Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai
200031, China. xhsun@shmu.edu.cn

This article reviews the progress of glaucoma surgery in the world combined with 
author's experiences in clinical practice and analyses the present condition and 
problems of glaucoma surgery in China. The issues are addressed and discussed in 
this paper also including current focus on the prevention of postoperative
shallow anterior chamber by nonpenetrating trabecular surgery in primary open
angle glaucoma and phacoemulsification in primary angle closure glaucoma, and the
fibro-scarring of filtering bleb by anti-metabolism medicines and filling
materials under scleral flap.


PMID: 19484923  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Radiology. 2009 Aug;252(2):496-501. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2522081240. Epub 2009 May
12.

Optic nerve and optic radiation neurodegeneration in patients with glaucoma: in
vivo analysis with 3-T diffusion-tensor MR imaging.

Garaci FG(1), Bolacchi F, Cerulli A, Melis M, Spanò A, Cedrone C, Floris R,
Simonetti G, Nucci C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Molecular Imaging, Interventional Radiology 
and Radiotherapy, University Hospital Tor Vergata, Viale Oxford 81, 00133 Rome,
Italy. garaci@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To evaluate, with high-field-strength diffusion-tensor (DT) magnetic
resonance (MR) imaging, the axonal architecture of the optic nerves and optic
radiations in patients with glaucoma and determine whether DT MR imaging-derived 
parameters correlate with disease severity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was approved by the institutional review board. 
All participants provided written informed consent. Sixteen patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma were examined. Glaucoma severity was clinically assessed with
use of a six-stage system based on static threshold visual field parameters. Ten 
healthy individuals served as control subjects. DT MR imaging was performed with 
a 3-T MR unit. Mean diffusivity (MD) and fractional anisotropy (FA) maps were
automatically created. Regions of interest were positioned on the MD and FA maps,
and mean MD and mean FA values were calculated for each optic nerve and each
optic radiation.
RESULTS: The optic radiations and optic nerves of patients with glaucoma, as
compared with control subjects, had significantly higher MD and significantly
lower FA. The mean MD values for the optic nerves and the glaucoma stages varied 
consistently (r = 0.8087, P < .0001). A negative correlation between mean FA for 
the optic nerves and glaucoma stage (r = -0.7464, P < .0001) was observed.
CONCLUSION: Glaucoma is a complex neurologic disease that affects optic nerves
and optic radiations. The finding that DT MR imaging-derived MD and FA in the
optic nerves correlate with glaucoma severity suggests that these parameters
could serve as complementary indicators of disease severity.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2522081240 
PMID: 19435941  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Acta Ophthalmol. 2010 Feb;88(1):5-11. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01452.x. Epub
2009 Apr 27.

Quantifying the effect of intraocular pressure reduction on the occurrence of
glaucoma.

Peeters A(1), Webers CA, Prins MH, Zeegers MP, Hendrikse F, Schouten JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Maastricht University Hospital, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To estimate the effect of reducing intraocular pressure (IOP) on: (i)
the incidence of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in patients with ocular
hypertension (OH), and (ii) the progression of glaucoma.
METHODS: A meta-analysis of relevant randomized controlled trials was conducted. 
A literature search was performed to identify trials with: a randomized
comparison of IOP-lowering intervention versus placebo or no treatment; visual
field loss or optic disc changes as outcome; and follow-up >6 months. A pooled
relative risk (RR) was calculated by a random effects model. Risk reduction of
glaucoma conversion per mmHg of IOP reduction was quantified in a meta-regression
model.
RESULTS: We identified nine OH and one POAG trials. A meta-analysis of OH trials 
gives a pooled RR of 0.61 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.45-0.83]. A
meta-regression shows a decrease of the RR of glaucoma conversion by 14% with
each mmHg extra IOP reduction (P = 0.045). No meta-analysis of POAG trials was
performed because only one study has been identified.
CONCLUSION: There is sufficient evidence that OH therapy reduces the risk of
conversion to glaucoma. This risk reduction increases with greater IOP reduction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01452.x 
PMID: 19432875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Exp Eye Res. 2009 Apr;88(4):683-8.

Modulation of extracellular matrix turnover in the trabecular meshwork.

Fuchshofer R(1), Tamm ER.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of Regensburg,
Regensburg, Germany. rudolf.fuchshofer@vkl.uni-regensburg.de

Intraocular pressure (IOP) is the most critical risk factor for primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG). In most cases of POAG, IOP is increased because of an
abnormally high aqueous humor outflow resistance in the juxtacanalicular region
of the trabecular meshwork. A distinct structural change in the trabecular
meshwork of patients with POAG is the increase in fibrillar extracellular matrix 
in the juxtacanalicular region of the trabecular meshwork. Our knowledge on the
molecular factors that govern turnover of the extracellular matrix in the
trabecular meshwork has increased considerably in recent years. It has become
clear that quality and quantity of the extracellular matrix in the trabecular
meshwork are regulated by several signaling molecules that interact with each
other to promote its synthesis, degradation, or extracellular modification.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 and beta2 (TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta2) which derive
from the aqueous humor or may be locally expressed induce in cultured trabecular 
meshwork cells the expression of a variety of extracellular matrix molecules. The
action of TGF-betas very likely requires local activation by thrombospondin-1 and
is partly mediated by its downstream mediator connective tissue growth factor,
both of which are constitutively expressed in the trabecular meshwork. Bone
morphogenetic proteins (BMP)-7 and -4 effectively antagonize the effects of
TGF-beta2 on matrix deposition. The antagonizing effects of BMP-7 are mediated in
trabecular meshwork cells through Smad7. Smad7 is a key molecular switch to
inhibit TGF-beta2 signaling in the trabecular meshwork.


PMID: 19385040  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(3):189-98. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200927030-00002.

Cost of illness of glaucoma: a critical and systematic review.

Fiscella RG(1), Lee J, Davis EJ, Walt J.

Author information: 
(1)University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60612, USA. fisc@uic.edu

Cost-of-illness studies determine the total financial burden of a disease by
considering direct and indirect costs, including medication, diagnostics and
surgery. Studies of resource use and costs associated with primary open-angle
glaucoma have used varying methodologies. Most have focused on consumption of
healthcare resources at various stages of disease to anticipate costs. The direct
costs associated with the disease often continue to increase as glaucoma
progresses from the earliest to most advanced stages. Determinations of the costs
associated with glaucoma progression and prevention should also incorporate the
chance of patient non-compliance with treatment. Since glaucoma severity most
often correlates with increased costs, minimizing or halting visual field loss
and increasing patient treatment compliance may all contribute to a reduction in 
the overall economic burden of glaucoma.


PMID: 19354339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Am J Nurs. 2009 Feb;109(2):40-7; quiz 48. doi:
10.1097/01.NAJ.0000345434.37734.ee.

Primary open-angle glaucoma.

Sharts-Hopko NC(1), Glynn-Milley C.

Author information: 
(1)Villanova University College of Nursing, Pennsylvania, USA.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), by far the most common form of glaucoma,
currently afflicts more than 2 million Americans, more than half of whom probably
don't know they have it. Asymptomatic in the early stages, it gradually and
progressively reduces the visual field and leads to blindness if untreated.
Elevated intraocular pressure is believed to play a role, yet some people with
normal pressure develop POAG. There is no single diagnostic test; screening and
diagnosis involve periodic comprehensive eye evaluations. Treatment is aimed at
delaying onset, slowing progression, and preserving vision.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NAJ.0000345434.37734.ee 
PMID: 19299999  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J Glaucoma. 2009 Mar;18(3):180-3. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31817eee0b.

Repeat selective laser trabeculoplasty.

Hong BK(1), Winer JC, Martone JF, Wand M, Altman B, Shields B.

Author information: 
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of repeat 360-degree selective laser
trabeculoplasty (SLT) in glaucoma patients with prior successful 360-degree SLT.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
METHODS: Forty-four eyes of 35 patients, > or =18 years of age, with open-angle
glaucoma (primary open-angle, pseudoexfoliation, or pigmentary glaucoma),
uncontrolled on maximum tolerable medical therapy, underwent an initial
360-degree SLT (SLT1), which was successful for > or =6 months, but eventually
lost efficacy and was followed by a repeat 360-degree SLT (SLT2). Patients with
prior argon laser trabeculoplasty or other glaucoma surgery, before or during the
study period, were excluded. Intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements were
recorded before each procedure and 1 to 4 weeks, 1 to 3 months, and 5 to 8 months
posttreatment and 15 to 21 weeks after the initial SLT.
RESULTS: Reduction in IOP after SLT1 and SLT2 was significantly less with repeat 
treatment at 1 to 3 months, with average decreases of -5.0 and -2.9 mm Hg,
respectively (P=0.01), but there were no statistically significant differences
between treatments at the other equivalent time points. Using a definition of
"success" as > or =20% peak IOP reduction, success rates for SLT1 and SLT2 were
not significantly different. There was also no significant difference in eyes
that received SLT2 6 to 12 months after SLT1 compared with those that received
SLT2 12 months or more after SLT1.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that repeat 360-degree SLT may be safe and
effective after an initially successful 360-degree SLT has failed. These results 
may be achieved as early as 6 months after the first treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31817eee0b 
PMCID: PMC2714284
PMID: 19295367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Br J Ophthalmol. 2009 Dec;93(12):1557-9. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2008.148064. Epub 2009 
Mar 13.

Alzheimer's disease and glaucoma: is there a causal relationship?

Wostyn P(1), Audenaert K, De Deyn PP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, PC Sint-Amandus, Reigerlostraat 10, 8730 Beernem,
Belgium. wostyn.peter@skynet.be

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jan;95(1):152; author reply 152-3.

Evidence of a link between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and glaucoma has emerged from
studies showing that patients with AD may have a significantly increased rate of 
glaucoma occurrence. In addition, it has been reported that patients with AD
exhibit optic nerve degeneration and loss of retinal ganglion cells. In spite of 
intensive research, the clinical and genetic relationships between AD and
glaucoma remain obscure. It is unclear whether the clinical correlation between
the two diseases might be due to shared risk factors or the influence of one
disorder on the other. Interestingly, certain observations may provide a clue
towards a better understanding of the high rate of comorbidity reported between
AD and glaucoma. In this article, we hypothesise that there may be a causal
relationship between AD and glaucoma that may be explained by decreased
cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSFP) in patients with AD. A very recent study
reported the intriguing new observation that mean CSFP was 33% lower in subjects 
with primary open-angle glaucoma than that of non-glaucomatous controls. It was
noted that this observation supports the concept that an abnormal high
trans-lamina cribrosa pressure difference, whether the result of elevated
intraocular pressure, reduced CSFP, or both, plays an important role in
glaucomatous optic nerve damage. Interestingly, it was also reported that a
substantial proportion of AD patients have very low CSFP. Therefore, we
hypothesise that an abnormal high trans-lamina cribrosa pressure difference may
explain why patients with AD have a greater risk for developing glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2008.148064 
PMID: 19286688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


382. N Engl J Med. 2009 Mar 12;360(11):1113-24. doi: 10.1056/NEJMra0804630.

Primary open-angle glaucoma.

Kwon YH(1), Fingert JH, Kuehn MH, Alward WL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Iowa, Iowa
City, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2009 Jun 18;360(25):2679; author reply 2679-80.
    N Engl J Med. 2009 Jun 18;360(25):2679; author reply 2679-80.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMra0804630 
PMCID: PMC3700399
PMID: 19279343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 Dec;36(9):847-51. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2008.01904.x.

Primary angle closure glaucoma: a descriptive study in Scottish Caucasians.

Ng WS(1), Ang GS, Azuara-Blanco A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Aberdeen, UK.
waisiene@doctors.org.uk

PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to describe the ocular and demographic features
of Caucasian patients newly presenting with primary angle closure glaucoma and
the proportion of workload it represents at a tertiary university hospital
glaucoma service.
METHODS: A retrospective case notes review was conducted for all Caucasian
patients newly diagnosed with narrow angles, primary angle closure, acute primary
angle closure and primary angle closure glaucoma that were seen over a period of 
2 years. Demographic and ocular variables were compared and statistical analysis 
was carried out with the paired t-test and chi-squared test. Number of primary
open angle closure glaucoma and acute angle closure cases were compared with
total number of new referrals to the department, new patients diagnosed with
glaucoma and population numbers for the North East of Scotland.
RESULTS: One hundred and four patients were analysed. Twenty-four (23.1%) had
narrow angles, 30 (28.8%) had primary angle closure and 50 (48.1%) had primary
angle closure glaucoma. Twelve (11.5%) presented with acute primary angle
closure. There was no significant difference for gender, age, hypermetropia or
visual acuity between groups. Primary angle closure glaucoma constituted 22.9%
(50/128) of newly diagnosed glaucoma cases. Based on the 2001 Scotland census,
the crude annual incidence of newly diagnosed primary angle closure glaucoma was 
estimated at 14.8 per 100 000 and 3.6 per 100 000 for acute primary angle closure
in the over-45-year-old population.
CONCLUSION: Our study confirms that primary angle closure glaucoma is uncommon in
Caucasians, but not as rare as originally perceived as it makes up a fair
proportion (22.9%) of glaucoma workload.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2008.01904.x 
PMID: 19278480  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


384. J Natl Med Assoc. 2009 Jan;101(1):46-50.

Primary open-angle glaucoma: diagnostic approaches and management.

Hazin R(1), Hendrick AM, Kahook MY.

Author information: 
(1)University of Nebraska Medical Center, Department of Genetics, Cell Biology,
and Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Omaha, Nebraska, USA.
hazin@fas.harvard.edu

Glaucoma represents the second most common cause of blindness in the United
States affecting approximately 2 million Americans, with many others unaware of
being afflicted. Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), which is the most common of 
all types of glaucoma, leads to progressive optic nerve damage. If left
untreated, POAG can lead to irreversible blindness. Since POAG is a relatively
asymptomatic disease, prevention of long-term complications must be accomplished 
with regular screening for early detection and appropriate treatment. Primary
care physicians play a critical role in screening at-risk populations and,
therefore, reducing the risk of visual loss that characterizes advanced stages of
POAG.


PMID: 19245072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Exp Eye Res. 2009 Apr;88(4):648-55. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2009.02.007. Epub 2009
Feb 23.

The trabecular meshwork outflow pathways: structural and functional aspects.

Tamm ER(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of Regensburg,
Regensburg, Germany. ernst.tamm@vkl.uni-regensburg.de

The major drainage structures for aqueous humor (AH) are the conventional or
trabecular outflow pathways, which are comprised of the trabecular meshwork (made
up by the uveal and corneoscleral meshworks), the juxtacanalicular connective
tissue (JCT), the endothelial lining of Schlemm's canal (SC), the collecting
channels and the aqueous veins. The trabecular meshwork (TM) outflow pathways are
critical in providing resistance to AH outflow and in generating intraocular
pressure (IOP). Outflow resistance in the TM outflow pathways increases with age 
and primary open-angle glaucoma. Uveal and corneoscleral meshworks form
connective tissue lamellae or beams that are covered by flat TM cells which rest 
on a basal lamina. TM cells in the JCT are surrounded by fibrillar elements of
the extracellular matrix (ECM) to form a loose connective tissue. In contrast to 
the other parts of the TM, JCT cells and ECM fibrils do not form lamellae, but
are arranged more irregularly. SC inner wall endothelial cells form giant
vacuoles in response to AH flow, as well as intracellular and paracellular pores.
In addition, minipores that are covered with a diaphragm are observed. There is
considerable evidence that normal AH outflow resistance resides in the inner wall
region of SC, which is formed by the JCT and SC inner wall endothelium.
Modulation of TM cell tone by the action of their actomyosin system affects TM
outflow resistance. In addition, the architecture of the TM outflow pathways and 
consequently outflow resistance appear to be modulated by contraction of ciliary 
muscle and scleral spur cells. The scleral spur contains axons that innervate
scleral spur cells or that have the ultrastructural characteristics of
mechanosensory nerve endings.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2009.02.007 
PMID: 19239914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


386. J Glaucoma. 2009 Feb;18(2):157-60. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181752c97.

A comparison of the intervisit intraocular pressure fluctuation after 180 and 360
degrees of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) as a primary therapy in primary 
open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Prasad N(1), Murthy S, Dagianis JJ, Latina MA.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine and compare the effect of 180 and 360 degrees of
selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) treatment as a primary therapy on the
intervisit intraocular pressure (IOP) fluctuation in patients followed up for a
period of 2 years without any further medical or surgical intervention.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of patients with ocular hypertension and
primary open angle glaucoma who received SLT as primary therapy without any
subsequent medical or surgical intervention. IOP before SLT and postlaser IOP at 
all the visits during the follow-up period of months 6 to 24 was determined. The 
standard deviation (SD) of the mean IOP was used as a surrogate for IOP
fluctuation.
RESULTS: Forty-one eyes were treated by SLT, 19 eyes in the 180-degree group and 
22 eyes in the 360-degree group. The mean reduction in IOP at 2 years was 28% in 
180-degree group and 35% in 360-degree SLT group. After the SLT, the 360-degree
SLT group had a lower IOP fluctuation compared with the 180-degree SLT group over
the follow-up period of months 6 to 24. The percentage of eyes with intervisit
IOP fluctuation (SD) <or=2 mm Hg during the same follow-up period was
significantly greater in 360-degree SLT treatment group (86%) than in the
180-degree SLT treatment group (52%), P=0.03. The odds of achieving IOP
fluctuation <or=2 mm Hg were 5.7 times greater with 360 degrees than with
180-degree SLT during the follow-up period of months 6 to 24.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that 360-degree SLT is more efficacious in
achieving smaller IOP fluctuations than treatment with 180-degree SLT.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181752c97 
PMID: 19225355  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


387. J Glaucoma. 2009 Feb;18(2):124-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318189158c.

Glaucoma in Africa: size of the problem and possible solutions.

Cook C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa. 
colin.cook@uct.ac.za

PURPOSE: To obtain an estimate of the magnitude of the problem of glaucoma in
sub-Saharan Africa, and to evaluate the existing evidence for including glaucoma 
as a priority disease in our Vision 2020 programs in Africa.
METHODS: A Pubmed search was carried out using "glaucoma prevalence Africa,"
"glaucoma presentation Africa," "glaucoma blindness Africa," "glaucoma screening 
Africa," and "glaucoma treatment Africa" as key words.
RESULTS: Most glaucoma in Africa is primary chronic open angle glaucoma, it may
occur at an earlier age, it may be associated with a higher intraocular pressure,
it may be more rapidly progressive, and it may present late. The prevalence of
glaucoma in East, Central, and Southern Africa can be conservatively estimated to
be 10,000 people for every 1 million population. This prevalence may be higher in
West Africa. The annual incidence of glaucoma can be conservatively estimated to 
be 400 new cases for every 1 million population. Glaucoma is the second leading
cause of blindness after cataract, responsible for up to 30% of blindness. Case
detection of glaucoma could be carried out at both the primary and secondary
level. Primary trabeculectomy with mitomycin C or beta irradiation adjunct may be
a suitable treatment. Cases could be followed up after surgery by mid-level eye
care workers, using the intraocular pressure as the indicator for adequacy of
control, and using a glaucoma register to identify and trace defaulters.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma should be included as a priority disease in Vision 2020
programs in Africa.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e318189158c 
PMID: 19225348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Przegl Lek. 2008;65(10):724-7.

[Present knowledge on the effects of smoking tobacco on the eye diseases].

[Article in Polish]

Grzybowski A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Katedra Historii Nauk Medycznych, Uniwersytet Medyczny im. Karola
Marcinkowskiego w Poznaniu. grzyb@am.poznan.pl

It is accepted that tobacco smoking impairs different functions of the organ of
vision and can be the cause of different eye diseases. It is well-known that
tobacco smoke contains more than 4,000 substances, some of them exerting toxic
influence on the eye by producing the ischemia or/and oxidative stress. In
previous years, the association between tobacco smoking and cataract, age-related
macular degeneration (ARMD), thyroid eye disease, anterior ischemic optic
neuropathy and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) were observed. It was also
suggested that smoking might have a negative impact on the treatment of
scleritis, thyroid eye disease and surgery of POAG. In last two years many
interesting studies have been conducted on the influence of smoking on morbidity 
and the character of AMD, cataract, vascular diseases of the retina, cystoid
macular edema complicating intermediate uveitis, refractive errors, thyroid eye
disease and the function of the optic nerve and retina measured by
electrophysiological techniques. Concluding there is increasing evidence that
tobacco smoking is a risk factor in case of many eye diseases. This suggests that
by eliminating smoking, it might be possible to decrease the morbidity of eye
diseases in the future.


PMID: 19189588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2008 Dec;112(12):1039-58.

[Tajimi Study review].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki Y(1), Yamamoto T, Araie M, Iwase A, Tomidokoro A, Abe H, Shirato S,
Kuwayama Y, Mishima HK, Shimizu H, Tomita G, Inoue Y, Kitazawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Teikyo University School of Medicine.

The results of The Tajimi Study (a population-based prevalence survey of glaucoma
in Tajimi City performed by the Japan Glaucoma Society) are summarized. The
Tajimi Study was carried out from September, 2000 to October, 2001 to investigate
the prevalence of glaucoma among residents aged 40 years old or over in Tajimi.
Seventy-eight point one % of 3,870 eligible people from 4,000 subjects who had
been randomly selected from the 54,165 over 40 years old residents in Tajimi
participated in the study. Estimated prevalence of all glaucoma and
glaucoma/suspected glaucoma were 5.0 (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.2-5.8)% and
7.5 (95% CI, 6.5-8.4)%. The prevalence of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG),
primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG), and secondary glaucoma (SG) were 3.9 (95% 
CI, 3.2-4.6)%, 0.6 (95% CI, 0.4-0.9)%, and 0.5 (95% CI, 0.2-0.7)%, respectively. 
Including suspected cases, the prevalence of POAG, PACG, and SG was 6.0
(5.1-6.8)%, 0.8 (0.5-1.2)%, 0.7 (0.4-1.0)%. High intraocular pressure, myopia,
and older age were shown to be statistically significant risk factors for POAG.
It was suggested that the Frequency Doubling Technology is a good candidate as a 
screening test for glaucoma. The leading cause of low vision was cataracts.
Investigation of refractive status showed that the prevalence of myopia(spherical
equivalence [SE] < 0.5 diopters) and high myopia (SE < -5.0 diopters) was 41.8
(40.0-43.6)% and 8.2 (7.2-9.2)%, respectively.


PMID: 19157025  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Exp Eye Res. 2009 Apr;88(4):769-75. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.11.025. Epub 2008
Dec 6.

Structural changes of the trabecular meshwork in different kinds of glaucoma.

Tektas OY(1), Lütjen-Drecoll E.

Author information: 
(1)University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Department of Anatomy II, Erlangen, Germany.

The morphology of the trabecular meshwork in three types of open angle glaucoma: 
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), corticosteroid-induced glaucoma and
pigmentary glaucoma (PG) are described. Ageing is one major risk factor for
development of POAG. It is assumed that preexisting age-related changes of the
trabecular meshwork (TM) play a role for the development of increased outflow
resistance and intraocular pressure (IOP) in various types of glaucoma. These
age-related changes in the TM develop concomitant with that of presbyopia.
Therefore the functional relationship between ciliary muscle (CM) and TM and the 
age-related changes in morphology of the outflow system are described first. One 
main finding in the ageing TM concerns changes of the elastic fiber network and
the anterior elastic tendons of the CM. There is an increase in thickness of the 
sheath of the elastic fibers. Cross-sections through these fibers with their
sheath appear as extracellular plaques and were therefore termed "sheath derived 
plaques" (SD-plaques). Morphologically, the TM changes in POAG resemble that of
the ageing TM, but in POAG there is a significant increase in SD-plaques compared
to age-matched controls. This increase is due to fine fibrils and other
components of the extracellular matrix (ECM) that adhere to the sheaths of the
elastic fibers and their connections to the inner wall endothelium. In POAG eyes 
there is also a marked loss of TM cells, at places leading to fusion and
thickening of trabecular lamellae. In steroid-induced glaucoma there is also an
increase in fine fibrillar material in the subendothelial region of SC. In
contrast to POAG eyes these fibrils do not adhere to the sheath of the elastic
fibers but are deposited underneath the inner wall endothelium. The main finding 
in steroid-induced glaucoma is an accumulation of basement membrane-like material
staining for type IV collagen. These accumulations are found throughout all
layers of the TM. In pigmentary glaucoma loss of cells was more prominent than in
POAG eyes. Presumably, this cell loss occurs after overload of TM cells with
pigment granules. Denuded TM lamellae fuse and the TM collapses. In the
subendothelial region of these collapsed TM areas an increase in ECM presumably
due to underperfusion was observed. At other places SC was occluded and the
cribriform region appeared disorganized. In most parts of the circumference of
the eye, the TM cells contained pigment granules. Occlusion of TM spaces by
pigment granules or cells loaden with pigment was not seen in eyes with PG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.11.025 
PMID: 19114037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Exp Eye Res. 2009 Apr;88(4):694-703. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.11.032. Epub 2008
Dec 11.

Matricellular proteins in the trabecular meshwork.

Rhee DJ(1), Haddadin RI, Kang MH, Oh DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary, Boston, MA
02114, USA. dougrhee@aol.com

The trabecular meshwork is one of the primary tissues of interest in the normal
regulation and dysregulation of intraocular pressure (IOP) that is a causative
risk factor for primary open-angle glaucoma. Matricellular proteins generally
function to allow cells to modulate their attachments with and alter the
characteristics of their surrounding extracellular matrix (ECM). In non-ocular
tissues, matricellular proteins generally increase fibrosis. Since ECM turnover
is very important to the outflow facility, matricellular proteins may have a
significant role in the regulation of IOP. The formalized study of matricellular 
proteins in trabecular meshwork is in its infancy. SPARC, thrombospondins-1 and
-2, and tenascins-C and -X, and osteopontin have been localized to varying areas 
within the trabecular meshwork. Preliminary evidence indicates that SPARC and
thrombospondin-1 play a role in the regulation of IOP and possibly the
pathophysiology of glaucoma. These data show promise that matricellular proteins 
are involved in IOP dysregulation and are potential therapeutic targets. Further 
study is needed to clarify these roles.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.11.032 
PMID: 19101543  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


392. J Glaucoma. 2008 Dec;17(8):690-8. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31816b3001.

Physician beliefs and behaviors related to glaucoma treatment adherence: the
Glaucoma Adherence and Persistency Study.

Gelb L(1), Friedman DS, Quigley HA, Lyon DW, Tan J, Kim EE, Zimmerman TJ, Hahn
SR.

Author information: 
(1)HealthCore Inc, Wilmington, DE, USA. lmgelb@comcast.net

PURPOSE: Patient adherence with topical glaucoma therapy is recognized as
suboptimal. Though some studies have associated physician/patient interaction
with adherence, little systematic research has explored the ophthalmologist's
perspective of this interaction. Telephone interviews with physicians treating
glaucoma were conducted to ascertain the extent to which multivariate analysis of
physician demographics, beliefs, and behaviors could reveal differences
potentially relevant to future adherence with topical glaucoma therapy for
primary open-angle glaucoma, in conjunction with other phases of the Glaucoma
Adherence and Persistency Study (GAPS).
METHODS: Structured interviews were conducted with 103 ophthalmologists treating 
significant numbers of primary open-angle glaucoma patients in a national managed
care network. To the maximum extent possible, eligible patients of physicians
interviewed were included in the other GAPS phases (claims analysis, patient
surveys, and medical chart reviews).
RESULTS: Physicians reported a wide range of beliefs and behaviors regarding
patients' medication adherence, but beliefs and behaviors were linked. The
segmentation analysis yielded 3 clusters of physicians, which we have described
on the basis of their predominant beliefs as "reactives," "skeptics," and
"idealists." The "idealists," though the smallest group, more often reported
beliefs and behaviors that may be more positively associated with patient
adherence, especially in the context of other GAPS findings.
CONCLUSIONS: Physician vigilance for opportunities to detect and address
nonadherence is suggested, as is interventional research on the basis of the
constructs identified.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31816b3001 
PMID: 19092468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Acta Ophthalmol. 2008 Dec;86(8):832-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01464.x.

Is exfoliation syndrome a sign of systemic vascular disease?

Tarkkanen A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Helsinki University Eye Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
ahti.tarkkanen@kolumbus.fi

Exfoliation syndrome (ES) is an age-related disorder in which greyish-white
flakes accumulate in different tissues in the anterior eye. Its pathogenesis is
not completely known, but it results in electron-dense microfibrils. The finding 
that these can be seen outside the eye in many visceral organs inspired the
theory that ES might be a part of a generalized disorder. It was postulated that 
ES might contribute to increased morbidity, mainly of systemic vascular diseases.
This review is a summary of the existing knowledge. The prevalence of arterial
hypertension (AHT) in elderly populations is > 30%. No differences have been
found in the frequency of AHT among patients with ES or exfoliative glaucoma (EG)
compared with those with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) or no ES. There are
conflicting reports of frequencies of ischaemic heart disease (IHD). A recent
registry-based study that used uniform criteria for IHD found no difference in
the rate of IHD between patients with EG and those with POAG. However, findings
of elevated homocysteine levels in the plasma and aqueous humour of patients with
ES or EG suggest an increased vascular risk. No studies have yet been conducted
to assess possible links between ES and systemic vascular diseases. In a
single-blind study, ES was associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm, but this
was not found in a large, cross-sectional investigation. The frequency of ES in
patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) is only about half of that when compared in 
patients with no ES or with POAG. This finding warrants further studies.
Molecular genetics research has found no common denominator for ES and the
vascular diseases. There is no evidence that ES or EG are related to increased
mortality for cardiovascular diseases. Further large-scale, randomized clinical
studies are required. At present there are no known medical indications that
infer an increased systemic vascular risk or imply a need for the complete
internal medical examination of a symptom-free patient with newly diagnosed ES in
the eye.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2008.01464.x 
PMID: 19086926  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Exp Eye Res. 2009 Apr;88(4):747-51. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.10.024. Epub 2008
Nov 18.

Stem cells in the trabecular meshwork: present and future promises.

Kelley MJ(1), Rose AY, Keller KE, Hessle H, Samples JR, Acott TS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Casey Eye Institute, Oregon Health & Science
University, Portland, OR 97239, USA. kelleyma@ohsu.edu

Primary open-angle glaucoma is recognized as a disease of aging, and studies show
a relationship between aging and trabecular meshwork (TM) cell density. Human TM 
cell division occurs primarily in the anterior, non-filtering region. A commonly 
used glaucoma treatment, laser trabeculoplasty (LTP), triggers and increases cell
division, as well as cell migration of these anterior TM cells. These
freshly-divided migrating cells repopulate the burned laser sites, suggesting
that they are stem cells. Several studies concerning this putative TM stem cell
will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.10.024 
PMCID: PMC2696933
PMID: 19061887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Exp Eye Res. 2009 Apr;88(4):837-44. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.11.003. Epub 2008
Nov 14.

The genetics of primary open-angle glaucoma: a review.

Allingham RR(1), Liu Y, Rhee DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Eye Center, Duke University, Durham, NC 27710, USA.
allin002@mc.duke.edu

Glaucoma is the major cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. Primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), as the most prevalent form of glaucoma, is a complex 
inherited disorder and affects more than 2 million individuals in the United
States. It has become increasingly clear that a host of genetic as well as
environmental factors are likely to contribute to the phenotype. A number of
chromosomal and genetic associations have been reported for POAG. This review
examines what is currently known about the underlying genetic structure, what
remains to be learned, and how this may affect our medical management of this
major blinding disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.11.003 
PMID: 19061886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Exp Eye Res. 2009 Apr;88(4):724-8. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.11.002. Epub 2008 Nov
12.

The role of proteolytic cellular systems in trabecular meshwork homeostasis.

Liton PB(1), Gonzalez P, Epstein DL.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University, Department of Ophthalmology, AERI 4004, Durham, NC 27710,
USA. paloma.liton@duke.edu

The molecular mechanisms contributing to the progressive malfunction of the
trabecular meshwork (TM)/Schlemm's canal (SC) conventional outflow pathway during
aging and in Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG) are still poorly understood.
Progressive accumulation of damaged and cross-linked proteins is a hallmark of
aging tissues and has been proposed to play a major role in the tissue
abnormalities associated with organismal aging and many age-related diseases.
Such progressive accumulation of damaged proteins with age is believed to result 
from both, increased oxidative stress that results in faster rates of protein
damage, as well as from a functional decline in the cellular proteolytic
machinery that eliminates misfolded and damaged proteins. Here, we review the
reported data that supports the occurrence of oxidative damage and the
alterations in the intracellular proteolytic systems in the TM in aging and POAG.
Finally, we discuss how the functional decline of the cellular proteolytic
machinery in the TM might lead to the observed physiologic alterations of the
outflow pathway in glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.11.002 
PMCID: PMC2707079
PMID: 19046967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Postepy Hig Med Dosw (Online). 2008 Oct 31;62:582-92.

[Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs): modern molecular markers of open-angle
glaucoma diagnosis and therapy].

[Article in Polish]

Kowalski M(1), Walczak A, Majsterek I.

Author information: 
(1)Niepubliczny Zakład Opieki Zdrowotnej "Sal-Med", Łódź.

Glaucoma is one of the most important civilization diseases and leads to
irreversible blindness. Inspite of many years of research, the causes of this
disorder remain unclear. This disease is extremely difficult to diagnose because 
its primary phase is asymptomatic. After laborious research it has been
discovered that metalloproteinases, i.e. proteolytic enzymes involved in the
pathogenesis of many kinds of glaucoma, are crucial in glaucoma diagnosis. The
overexpression of matrixins leads to degradation of extracellular matrix
components, which results in eye tissue injury and changes of tissue properties. 
Structural disorders occurring in this way are one of the many key reasons for
progressive glaucomatous optic neuropathy. The presence of altered expressions of
MMP-1, -2, -3, -7, -9, and -12 and their tissue inhibitors TIMP-1 and -2 in the
glaucomatous eye paves new ways for the diagnosis and treatment of open-angle
glaucoma. The detection of polymorphisms and mutations in genes encoding these
enzymes will allow qualifying a patient to a risk group and people who are
already ill may be treated by regulation of metalloproteinases activity. This
review focuses on the presence and function of metalloproteinases in open-angle
glaucoma and on treatment possibilities through MMP regulation.


PMID: 19002081  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Exp Eye Res. 2009 Apr;88(4):752-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.10.004. Epub 2008 Nov
1.

The role of steroids in outflow resistance.

Clark AF(1), Wordinger RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Genetics, University North Texas Health Science
Center, Ft. Worth, TX 76107, USA. abclark@hsc.unt.edu

Glucocorticoid (GC)-induced ocular hypertension and secondary iatrogenic
open-angle glaucoma are serious side effects of GC therapy. Its clinical
presentation is similar in many ways to primary open-angle glaucoma, including
increased aqueous outflow resistance and morphological and biochemical changes to
the trabecular meshwork (TM). Therefore, a large number of studies have examined 
the effects of GCs on TM cells and tissues. GCs have diverse effects on the TM,
altering TM cell functions, gene expression, extracellular matrix metabolism, and
cytoskeletal structure. Some or all of these effects may be responsible for the
increased outflow resistance associated with GC therapy. In contrast to GCs,
several different classes of steroids appear to lower IOP. Additional research
will help better define the molecular mechanisms responsible for GC-induced
ocular hypertension and steroid-induced IOP lowering activity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.10.004 
PMID: 18977348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Prog Brain Res. 2008;173:181-93. doi: 10.1016/S0079-6123(08)01113-8.

Primary open angle glaucoma: an overview on medical therapy.

Vetrugno M(1), Cantatore F, Ruggeri G, Ferreri P, Montepara A, Quinto A, Sborgia 
C.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Center, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.
m.vetrugno@oftalmo.uniba.it

The purpose of this review is to discuss the topics relevant to the use of
intraocular pressure-lowering strategies, which remains the first line in the
management of glaucoma. Estimates of blindness from glaucoma and identification
of risk factors remain of interest for all ophthalmologists. New functional tests
offer promise for better detection and more accurate diagnosis of glaucoma. We
finally discuss the impact of various glaucoma therapies, the principles of
monotherapy and fixed combinations, which offer benefits of convenience, cost,
and safety.

DOI: 10.1016/S0079-6123(08)01113-8 
PMID: 18929109  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Prog Brain Res. 2008;173:165-77. doi: 10.1016/S0079-6123(08)01112-6.

Advances in neuroimaging of the visual pathways and their use in glaucoma.

Garaci FG(1), Cozzolino V, Nucci C, Gaudiello F, Ludovici A, Lupattelli T, Floris
R, Simonetti G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology, University of
Rome Tor Vergata, V.le Oxford 81, Rome, Italy. garaci@gmail.com

Recently developed neuroimaging techniques such as diffusion tensor (DT) magnetic
resonance (MR) imaging, functional MR imaging (fMRI), and MR spectroscopy can be 
used to evaluate the microstructural integrity of white-matter fibers and the
functional activity of gray matter. They have been widely employed to investigate
various diseases of the central nervous system, and they can be useful tools for 
assessing the integrity and functional connections of the visual pathways and
areas that play key roles in glaucoma. In vivo degeneration of the optic nerves
can be noninvasively demonstrated by DT MR imaging. DT fiber tractography
provides valuable information on the axonal density of postgeniculate fibers
(optic radiation), and fMRI studies of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma 
(POAG) have demonstrated alterations involving the human visual cortex that are
consistent with clinically documented losses of visual function. This article
reviews some of the more recent data supporting the use of MR imaging techniques 
as reliable, noninvasive tools for monitoring the progression of human glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/S0079-6123(08)01112-6 
PMID: 18929108  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Prog Brain Res. 2008;173:3-14. doi: 10.1016/S0079-6123(08)01101-1.

Epidemiology of primary glaucoma: prevalence, incidence, and blinding effects.

Cedrone C(1), Mancino R, Cerulli A, Cesareo M, Nucci C.

Author information: 
(1)Physiopathological Optics, Department of Biopathology and Diagnostic Imaging, 
University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy. cedrone@uniroma2.it

Certain general conclusions can be drawn from a series of 56 studies on glaucoma 
prevalence. Even in the most recently published studies the rate of undiagnosed
glaucoma is particularly high. Another fairly constant finding is the discrepancy
between the clinical and epidemiologic diagnoses of glaucoma. The prevalence of
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) has been increasing, and this trend is
undoubtedly due at least in part to advances in diagnostic technology. The
decreasing prevalence of primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) is due to the
adoption of more stringent criteria for the diagnosis of this form of glaucoma.
Prevalence increases proportionately with age for each racial group. African or
African origin populations had the highest POAG prevalence at all ages but the
increase in prevalence of POAG is steeper for white populations. PACG is
commonest in Asian ethnic groups, with the exception of the Japanese. Low-tension
glaucoma (LTG) is quite common in the Japanese population. Over 80% of those with
PACG live in Asia, while POAG disproportionately affects those of African
derivation. Women are more affected by glaucoma. Very few incidence studies have 
been completed, because the cost of examining large samples is high. There are
only two recent studies conducted on persons of African descent in Barbados (West
Indies) and on white inhabitants of Rotterdam (Netherlands). Risk of incident
glaucoma was highest among persons classified as having suspect POAG at baseline,
followed by those with ocular hypertension. No difference in incidence of POAG
between men and women was found. The more recent studies which included routine
visual-field testing reveal rates of blinding glaucoma <10% in many countries,
including those that are developing.

DOI: 10.1016/S0079-6123(08)01101-1 
PMID: 18929097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


402. J Glaucoma. 2008 Oct-Nov;17(7):578-83. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31816b304a.

Long-term comparison of primary trabeculectomy with 5-fluorouracil versus
mitomycin C in West Africa.

Kim HY(1), Egbert PR, Singh K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
CA 97303, USA. hannakim@stanford.edu

PURPOSE: To compare the long-term efficacy and safety of intraoperative
5-fluorouracil (5-FU) versus mitomycin-C (MMC) used adjunctively with primary
trabeculectomy in a Black West African population.
DESIGN: Retrospective comparative study supplemented with cross-sectional
follow-up data.
METHODS: Review of 68 eyes of 68 Black West African subjects that underwent
primary trabeculectomy with the use of intraoperative 5-FU or MMC between January
1, 1988 and January 1, 2002 and had at least 3 years postoperative follow-up.
Postoperative outcome measures included intraocular pressure (IOP) control,
number of glaucoma medications, visual acuity, and complications.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight of sixty-eight eyes received 5-FU and 30 received MMC. Mean
postoperative follow-up was 7.5 and 6.5 years in the 5-FU and MMC groups,
respectively (P=0.17). A higher proportion of eyes in the MMC group achieved
"qualified" (with or without medical therapy) success with varying IOP targets
relative to the 5-FU group, but the differences were not statistically
significant. "Complete" (without medical therapy) postoperative success was
greater in the MMC group with a significantly higher proportion achieving an IOP 
<21 mm Hg (P=0.02). MMC use was also associated with a lower likelihood of
receiving IOP-lowering medications postoperatively (P=0.01). Baseline demographic
characteristics, preoperative and postoperative IOP, visual acuity, and
complications did not differ significantly between the 2 groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Intraoperative MMC use is associated with a lower likelihood of
requiring postoperative medications and a greater likelihood of achieving IOP
lowering without medications relative to the use of 5-FU in a Black West African 
population.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31816b304a 
PMID: 18854737  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


403. J Glaucoma. 2008 Oct-Nov;17(7):558-66. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815f530c.

Cigarette smoking and primary open angle glaucoma: a systematic review.

Edwards R(1), Thornton J, Ajit R, Harrison RA, Kelly SP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington, New Zealand.
Richard.Edwards@otago.ac.nz

PURPOSE: To evaluate the epidemiologic evidence for a causal association between 
tobacco smoking and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: Systematic review, including quality assessment, of published analytical
epidemiologic studies and evaluation of the evidence using established causality 
criteria (strength, consistency, temporality, dose response, reversibility, and
biologic plausibility).
RESULTS: Eleven papers describing 9 case-control studies, 1 prospective cohort
study, and a paper describing a pooled analysis based on 2 prospective cohort
studies were included in the review. The methodologic quality of most included
studies was poor. The strongest studies methodologically were the cohort studies 
on which the pooled analysis was based. Neither the prospective cohort study
(rate ratio not reported) nor the pooled analysis of 2 prospective cohort studies
(adjusted rate ratio 0.9) found an association between smoking and POAG. There
was a significant positive association between smoking and POAG in only 2 of the 
case-control studies (adjusted odds ratio 2.9 and 10.8). There was no evidence of
a dose-response relationship with smoking or of reversibility of effect in the
studies where this was assessed.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review provided little evidence for a causal
association between smoking and development of POAG. Given the limited evidence
from high quality studies, and the possibility that flaws in many of the studies 
reviewed biased the results toward the null, further high quality research to
confirm our conclusions is needed. However, it remains important to warn
ophthalmic patients of the dangers of smoking and provide cessation support owing
to the clear evidence of links between smoking and other ocular and systemic
diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815f530c 
PMID: 18854733  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Int Ophthalmol. 2009 Dec;29(6):477-83. doi: 10.1007/s10792-008-9269-4. Epub 2008 
Oct 14.

Prevalence of glaucoma types and legal blindness from glaucoma in the western
region of Saudi Arabia: a hospital-based study.

Eid TM(1), el-Hawary I, el-Menawy W.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma & Cataract Unit, Magrabi Eye & Ear Center, Madina Road, P.O. Box
20377, Jeddah, 21455, Saudi Arabia. tarekmeid@hotmail.com

To determine prevalence of glaucoma subtypes and legal blindness in patients on
their first visit to an ophthalmic center in the western region of Saudi Arabia a
chart review analysis was carried out of new patients in 2006 with glaucoma
diagnosis in our Glaucoma Unit. Diagnosis was confirmed clinically and by
glaucoma workup. The main outcome was prevalence of glaucoma types and legal
blindness from glaucoma. Of 2,354 new patients in 2006, 417 were glaucomatous.
Mean age was 56.4 years and mean intraocular pressure (IOP) was 26.5 mmHg; 54.4% 
had prior glaucoma diagnosis. Prevalence of primary open-angle glaucoma was
30.5%, primary angle-closure 24.7%, neovascular 7.6%, surgically induced 6.5%,
and exfoliative 5.2%. One-third of patients were unilaterally legally blind,
whereas 11.3% were bilateral. Primary glaucoma represents two-thirds of glaucoma 
cases in Saudi Arabia. Approximately one-half of patients were legally blind in
at least one eye at time of presentation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-008-9269-4 
PMID: 18853106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Exp Eye Res. 2009 Apr;88(4):704-12. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.08.011. Epub 2008
Aug 29.

Glaucoma-associated myocilin: a better understanding but much more to learn.

Resch ZT(1), Fautsch MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
resch.zachary@mayo.edu

Over a decade has passed since myocilin was identified as the first gene linked
to early and late-onset primary open-angle glaucoma. During this time,
considerable effort has been put forth to understand the functional role myocilin
has in normal and glaucomatous eyes. Myocilin is expressed in many ocular and
non-ocular tissues, is found in both intracellular and extracellular spaces, and 
has been linked to elevations in intraocular pressure. Mutations in the myocilin 
gene that have been associated with glaucoma appear to confer a
gain-of-functional activity rather than loss of function. Unfortunately, what the
normal function of myocilin is and how alterations in the function can confer a
glaucoma phenotype have yet to be elucidated. We will review the current
understanding of myocilin with special emphasis on the structural makeup of the
myocilin gene and protein, its possible physiological roles internal and external
to ocular cells, the regulation of intraocular pressure as evidenced through the 
use of perfusion culture systems and animal models, and as a causative agent in
some forms of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.08.011 
PMCID: PMC2682697
PMID: 18804106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Glaucoma. 2008 Sep;17(6):497-502. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31817d2386.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty: a review.

Realini T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV 26505,
USA. realinia@wvuh.com

The introduction of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) has renewed interest in
laser trabeculoplasty for the reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) in eyes
with glaucoma. This review was undertaken to address frequently raised issues
pertinent to SLT in clinical practice. On the basis of the peer-reviewed medical 
literature, SLT demonstrates equivalent efficacy and comparable safety to argon
laser trabeculoplasty, and is also equally as effective as topical medical
therapy. SLT's safety profile includes mild and transient inflammation, ocular
pain, and a small risk of moderate IOP elevations after the procedure. The
mechanism of action of SLT is not known. SLT delivers less energy to the
trabecular meshwork and generates less damage to angle tissues. Whether this
renders SLT more repeatable than argon laser trabeculoplasty has not been
evaluated in published data. SLT seems to be a safe and effective means of IOP
reduction in eyes with glaucoma, and can reasonably be applied as primary or
adjunctive therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31817d2386 
PMID: 18794688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Exp Eye Res. 2009 Apr;88(4):713-7. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.08.008. Epub 2008 Aug
27.

The role of the actomyosin system in regulating trabecular fluid outflow.

Tian B(1), Gabelt BT, Geiger B, Kaufman PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, WI 53792-3220, USA.

Abnormally high resistance to aqueous humor drainage via the trabecular meshwork 
and Schlemm's canal is highly correlated with the development of primary
open-angle glaucoma. Contractility of the actomyosin system in the trabecular
cells or inner wall endothelium of Schlemm's canal is an important factor in the 
regulation of outflow resistance. Cytoskeletal agents, affecting F-actin
integrity or actomyosin contractility, or gene therapies, employing
overexpression of caldesmon or Rho-A inhibition, can decrease outflow resistance 
in the drainage pathway. In this review, we discuss the mechanisms underlying
these and similar effects on trabecular outflow resistance in living animals
and/or in cultured ocular anterior segments from enucleated animal or human eyes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2008.08.008 
PMCID: PMC2694502
PMID: 18793636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Eye (Lond). 2009 Sep;23(9):1764-74. doi: 10.1038/eye.2008.260. Epub 2008 Sep 12.

Glaucoma: an area of darkness.

Hitchings RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK. rogerhitchings@hotmail.com

This review of Primary Open Angle Glaucoma looks at the management of the
condition today. It does this by looking at the following areas: (a) the size of 
the problem; (b) the position of IOP, with respect to its elevation and
fluctuation; (c) optic nerve head changes; and (d) visual function changes. In
doing so, it contrasts what is known now with ideas and concepts that were
prevalent at the time of the two previous Bowman lecturers, Duke Elder and
Drance, as well as noting concepts about the disease that were current at the
time of William Bowman. The review concludes by suggesting challenges in this
area that lie ahead.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2008.260 
PMID: 18791552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Arch Ophthalmol. 2008 Sep;126(9):1216-20. doi: 10.1001/archopht.126.9.1216.

Predicting response to glaucoma therapy in one eye based on response in the
fellow eye: the monocular trial.

Chaudhary O(1), Adelman RA, Shields MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Yale University School of
Medicine, 40 Temple St, New Haven, CT 06510-2715, USA.

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 2009 May;127(5):707-8; author reply 708.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether the change in intraocular pressure (IOP) observed 
in one eye after starting a glaucoma medication regimen is predictive of the
change in IOP due to the same medication in the fellow eye.
METHODS: A retrospective medical record review of 22 patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and 27 glaucoma suspects who underwent monocular drug 
trials before the drug was added to the second eye. The absolute change in IOP
from baseline and the relative change (change in treated eye minus change in
fellow eye) in the first eye treated were compared with the second eye after
binocular treatment.
RESULTS: The absolute and relative decreases in IOP of the first eye were poorly 
correlated with those of the second eye in patients with POAG (r(2) < 0.001; P = 
.97 and r(2) = 0.040; P = .38, respectively). However, they were well correlated 
in glaucoma suspects (r(2) = 0.348; P = .001 and r(2) = 0.396; P < .001,
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The change in IOP of one eye due to a medication may be predictive
of the subsequent response of the fellow eye to the same medication in glaucoma
suspects, but not in patients with POAG. Using the fellow eye as a control may
confer a more accurate portrayal of the true therapeutic effects of a medicine,
although further study is needed to support both of these findings.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.126.9.1216 
PMID: 18779480  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Drugs Aging. 2008;25(9):729-59.

Pharmacological management of primary open-angle glaucoma: second-line options
and beyond.

Webers CA(1), Beckers HJ, Nuijts RM, Schouten JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Maastricht University Hospital, Maastricht, the
Netherlands. c.webers@numc.nl

Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of blindness worldwide. Increased
intraocular pressure (IOP) is considered to be the most important risk factor.
Major outcome studies from recent years have shown that lowering IOP is
beneficial in primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. The
introduction of new classes of IOP-lowering drugs (alpha(2)-adrenoceptor
agonists, topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and hypotensive lipids) in the
last decade has contributed to a change in the drug prescription pattern.
Together with beta-adrenoceptor antagonists (beta-blockers), these drugs are now 
considered to be first-choice classes, giving ophthalmologists ample
opportunities to choose from a broad spectrum of IOP-lowering drugs. The number
of possible medical treatment combinations has increased likewise.We review
medical treatment combinations of two, three or four drugs from the four major
first-choice glaucoma drug classes and provide an overview of the scientific
evidence for IOP efficacy of second-line medical options when first-line therapy 
has been effective but additional IOP lowering is necessary. A systematic search 
of the literature initially revealed 2729 publications. After a thorough
selection process, 42 studies were found to be eligible for inclusion in the
review. Publications were excluded if the primary endpoint of the study was not
IOP or if glaucoma topics other than IOP lowering of drugs were studied. In
addition, studies that reported results for monotherapies only were excluded. The
vast majority of study arms reported on combinations of a beta-blocker with
either a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor or a hypotensive lipid. For a number of
treatment combinations no eligible studies were available or could be
included.This review shows that combining drugs from the different first-choice
classes results in an additional IOP decrease. The exact magnitude of this
additional decrease and the patients to whom it applies remain unclear. In many
studies, no information on IOP before the run-in phase was available. However,
such data are important in order to determine whether patients with high
untreated IOP or patients non-responsive to the run-in drug(s) were
preferentially included. Another issue that hampers interpretation is the fact
that the timepoints of measurements of IOP before and after adding a drug should 
be related to the peak and trough times of the drugs. Finally, differences
between concomitant use and fixed combined use of drugs may have consequences for
the interpretation of results.


PMID: 18729546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2008 Dec;49(12):5412-8. doi: 10.1167/iovs.08-2228.
Epub 2008 Aug 21.

Intracranial pressure in primary open angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma,
and ocular hypertension: a case-control study.

Berdahl JP(1), Fautsch MP, Stinnett SS, Allingham RR.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Eye Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
johnberdahl@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To compare intracranial pressure (ICP) in subjects with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), normal-tension glaucoma (NTG; subset of POAG), and
ocular hypertension (OHT) with that in subjects with no glaucoma.
METHODS: The study was a retrospective review of medical records of 62,468
subjects who had lumbar puncture between 1985 and 2007 at the Mayo Clinic. Of
these, 57 POAG subjects, 11 NTG subjects (subset of POAG), 27 OHT subjects, and
105 control subjects met the criteria and were analyzed. A masked comparison of
the relationship between ICP and other ocular and nonocular variables was
performed by using univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: ICP was significantly lower in POAG compared with age-matched control
subjects with no glaucoma (9.1 +/- 0.77 mm Hg vs. 11.8 +/- 0.71 mm Hg; P <
0.0001). Subjects with NTG also had reduced ICP compared with the control
subjects (8.7 +/- 1.16 mm Hg vs. 11.8 +/- 0.71 mm Hg; P < 0.01). ICP was higher
in OHT than in age-matched control subjects (12.6 +/- 0.85 mm Hg vs. 10.6 +/-
0.81 mm Hg; P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: ICP is lower in POAG and NTG and elevated in OHT. ICP may play an
important role in the development of POAG and NTG and in preventing the
progression of OHT to POAG. Further prospective and experimental studies are
warranted to determine whether ICP has a fundamental role in the pathogenesis of 
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.08-2228 
PMCID: PMC2745832
PMID: 18719086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Oftalmologia. 2008;52(1):31-5.

[Normotensive glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Dumitrica DM(1), Stefan C.

Author information: 
(1)Spitalul Clinic De Urgenta Militar Central Carol Davila Bucuresti Clinica De
Oftalmologie. dianamelinte2004@yahoo.com

Normal tension glaucoma is a form of primary open angle glaucoma where the
intraocular pressure remains within the normal range. In this case the main
challenge is to establish the correct diagnosis. The clinical evaluation of a
patient suspected of a normal tension glaucoma must answer two questions: 1) is
the intraocular pressure normal and 2) is it a glaucomatous optic neuropathy or
another type of optic neuropathy?


PMID: 18714487  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Glaucoma. 2008 Aug;17(5):372-7. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815c5f3f.

Intraocular pressure response to medication in a clinical setting: the Marshfield
Clinic Personalized Medicine Research Project.

McCarty CA(1), Mukesh BN, Kitchner TE, Hubbard WC, Wilke RA, Burmester JK,
Patchett RB.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Genetics, Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation, Marshfield, 
WI 54449, USA. mccarty.catherine@mcrf.mfldclin.edu

PURPOSE: To estimate glaucoma and ocular hypertension prevalence and to describe 
temporal trends in prescribing patterns and intraocular pressure (IOP) response
to topical medications used in glaucoma and ocular hypertension.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The medical records of adult subjects enrolled in the
population-based Marshfield Clinic Personalized Medicine Research Project were
searched to identify participants who had been diagnosed with ocular hypertension
or glaucoma and prescribed agent(s) to lower IOP. All IOPs before and after
prescription of the IOP agents were recorded.
RESULTS: As of December 31, 2005, 18,773 adults were enrolled in the Personalized
Medicine Research Project, 57.1% were female, and their mean age was 50.3 years
(range, 18 to 101 y). The overall rate of definite glaucoma in subjects aged 50
years and above was 2.1% (95% confidence interval=1.2, 2.4) and the rate of
treated ocular hypertension was 1.4% (95% confidence interval=1.2, 1.7). Topical 
beta-blockers were the agents prescribed for the majority of subjects until the
year 2000, when prostaglandins, first used in 1995, became the primary agent
prescribed. In 2005, 75% of subjects used prostaglandin analogs and 46% used
topical beta-blockers. The largest relative reduction in IOP in the first 3
months after prescription was observed for prostaglandin analogs (21.4% mean
relative reduction), followed by beta-blockers (20.9% mean relative reduction).
There has been a significant decrease over time in mean IOP before initiating
medical therapy (linear regression beta coefficient=-0.30, P<0.0001, r=0.09).
CONCLUSIONS: In this clinic-based setting, we found that treatment of glaucoma
has changed over the past 20 years, with ophthalmologists more likely to begin
treatment at lower baseline levels of IOP, and prostaglandin analogs the most
commonly prescribed and agent to lower IOP.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815c5f3f 
PMID: 18703947  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2008 May;36(4):377-85. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2008.01740.x.

Bioenergetic-based neuroprotection and glaucoma.

Schober MS(1), Chidlow G, Wood JP, Casson RJ.

Author information: 
(1)South Australian Institute of Ophthalmology, Adelaide, South Australia,
Australia. michael.schober@imvs.sa.gov.au

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a pressure-sensitive optic neuropathy which
results in the death of retinal ganglion cells and causes associated loss of
vision. Presently, the only accepted treatment strategy is to lower the
intraocular pressure; however, for some patients this is insufficient to prevent 
progressive disease. Although the pathogenesis of POAG remains unclear, there is 
considerable evidence that energy failure at the optic nerve head may be
involved. Neuroprotection, a strategy which directly enhances the survival of
neurons, is desirable, but remains clinically elusive. One particular form of
neuroprotection involves the notion of enhancing the energy supply of neurons.
These 'bioenergetic' methods of neuroprotection have proven successful in animal 
models of other neurodegenerative diseases and conditions, including Parkinson's 
disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and traumatic brain 
injury, but have been relatively unexplored in glaucoma models. This review
focuses on some of the potential approaches for bioenergetic neuroprotection in
the retina, including increasing the energy buffering capacity of damaged cells, 
decreasing the permeability of the mitochondrial membrane pore and free radical
scavenging.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2008.01740.x 
PMID: 18700928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 2008;(308):35-43.

Currents on target intraocular pressure and intraocular pressure fluctuations in 
glaucoma management.

Detry-Morel M(1).

Author information: 
(1)St Luc University Hospital, Université Catholique de Louvain, Bruxelles,
Belgium.

Over the past decade, results from prospective, randomized, clinical trials have 
confirmed the value of reducing intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with
ocular hypertension or primary open-angle glaucoma and have outlined the need to 
consider a target IOP in an individual glaucomatous patient and not an arbitrary 
value of 21 mm Hg as classically believed. The target IOP corresponds to an
estimation of the mean IOP obtained with treatment that is expected to prevent
further glaucomatous damage. Target IOP is difficult to assess accurately in
advance in every individual patient and eye. Moreover, no degree of IOP is proven
to be safe for every patient. This paper will deal with the criteria that can be 
used to approach as closely as possible and periodically re-assess the range of
the target IOP in an individual. Although IOP has been found to be more variable 
in glaucomatous than in healthy eyes, the potential role of diurnal IOP
fluctuations in the development or progression of glaucomatous damage is still
unclear. It has been strongly suggested in a recent past that abnormal 24-hour
IOP fluctuation could be a significant risk factor for glaucomatous damage. There
is still currently insufficient evidence to support that both 24-hour IOP
fluctuation and IOP variation over periods longer than 24 hours are an
independent and separate risk factor for glaucomatous damage. Until further
confirmation on their exact role in glaucoma development and progression, the
goal of detecting and reducing abnormal 24-hour IOP fluctuation is warranted in
all newly diagnosed glaucomatous patients as well as in patients who continue to 
progress at lower pressures.


PMID: 18700453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008 Jul 16;(3):CD006746. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD006746.pub2.

Laser peripheral iridoplasty for angle-closure.

Ng WS(1), Ang GS, Azuara-Blanco A.

Author information: 
(1)Cochrane Eyes and Vision, ICEH, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, 
Keppel Street, London, UK, WC1E 7HT. waisiene@doctors.org.uk

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;2:CD006746.

BACKGROUND: Angle-closure glaucoma is a leading cause of irreversible blindness
in the world. Treatment is aimed at opening the anterior chamber angle and
lowering the IOP with medical and/or surgical treatment (e.g. trabeculectomy,
lens extraction). Laser iridotomy works by eliminating pupillary block and widens
the anterior chamber angle in the majority of patients. When laser iridotomy
fails to open the anterior chamber angle, laser iridoplasty may be recommended as
one of the options in current standard treatment for angle-closure. Laser
peripheral iridoplasty works by shrinking and pulling the peripheral iris tissue 
away from the trabecular meshwork. Laser peripheral iridoplasty can be used for
crisis of acute angle-closure and also in non-acute situations.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of laser peripheral iridoplasty in the
treatment of narrow angles (i.e. primary angle-closure suspect), primary
angle-closure (PAC) or primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) in non-acute
situations when compared with any other intervention. In this review,
angle-closure will refer to patients with narrow angles, PAC and PACG.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
(CENTRAL) (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group Trials Register)
(The Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, EMBASE and LILACS (Latin American and Caribbean 
Literature on Health Sciences). The databases were last searched on 11 February
2008.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Only randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were eligible for
inclusion in this review. Patients with narrow angles, PAC or PACG were eligible.
Studies that included only patients with acute presentations, using laser
peripheral iridoplasty to break acute crisis were excluded.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: No analysis was carried out due to lack of trials.
MAIN RESULTS: There were no RCTs assessing laser peripheral iridoplasty in the
non-acute setting of angle-closure.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is currently no strong evidence for laser peripheral 
iridoplasty's use in treating angle-closure.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006746.pub2 
PMID: 18646165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Med Syst. 2008 Aug;32(4):301-15.

Imaging systems of human eye: a review.

Acharya RU(1), Yun WL, Ng EY, Yu W, Suri JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering, Ngee Ann Polytechnic,
Singapore, Singapore. aru@np.edu.sg

The eyes are complex sensory organs and are designed to optimize vision under
conditions of varying light. There are a number of eye disorders that can
influence vision. Eye disorders among the elderly are a major health problem.
With advancing age, the normal function of eye tissues decreases and there is an 
increased incidence of ocular pathology. The most common causes of age related
eye disorder and visual impairment in the elderly are cataracts and primary open 
angle glaucoma. Different imaging systems are available to visualize the
different parts of the eye non-invasively with higher accuracy. This paper
discusses the various techniques available namely, computed tomography, confocal 
laser scanning microscopy, magnetic resonance imaging, optical coherence
tomography, ultrasound imaging, infrared thermography for the imaging of the
different eye abnormalities.


PMID: 18619094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Med Sci Monit. 2008 Jul;14(7):RA87-93.

Association between MYOC.mt1 promoter polymorphism and risk of primary open-angle
glaucoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Liu T(1), Zeng D, Zeng C, He X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Daping Hospital, Third Military Medical
University of PLA, Chongqing, China.

BACKGROUND: The aim was to review all published studies that investigated the
association between MYOC.mt1 polymorphism and the risk of primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG).
MATERIAL/METHODS: Electronic databases were searched for relevant articles in
English. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were established according to the
criteria of the Cochrane Methods Group. Studies were included if participants
were patients with POAG (adult- or juvenile-onset), had extractable data on both 
genotypes of MYOC.mt1, phenotypes of severity, and reasonable controls.
Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS 13.0 for Windows and RevMan 4.2.
Four case-control studies of 835 cases and 530 controls were included in the
meta-analysis.
RESULTS: The pooled odds ratio (OR) to develop POAG with and without MYOC.mt1
from a fixed-effects model was 1.06 (95%CI: 0.81-1.38, P=0.67), i.e. MYOC.mt1
carriers did not have significantly higher risk of developing POAG than
non-carriers. There was also no significant association between the -1000G allele
and increased risk (OR=1.05, 95%CI: 0.83-1.32, P=0.71). Comprehensive
summarization was done to determine the influence of MYOC.mt1 on the severity of 
optic disk changes and visual function loss in POAG cases. There was evidence of 
publication bias from funnel-plot asymmetry and Egger's test.
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence for an association between MYOC.mt1 and the risk of POAG is
limited. These results suggest that MYOC.mt1 polymorphism does not have
significant influence on the risk of POAG development or its severity. However,
the evidence of publication bias suggests that more large prospective cohort
studies with precise design are required to confirm an association between
MYOC.mt1 and POAG.


PMID: 18591929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Aug;24(8):2265-70. doi: 10.1185/03007990802273652. Epub
2008 Jun 25.

A systematic review of the characteristics of randomised control trials featuring
prostaglandins for the treatment of glaucoma.

Lee CW(1), Buckley F, Costello S, Kelly S.

Author information: 
(1)Pfizer Ltd., Tadworth, Surrey, UK. Chia-Wen.Lee@pfizer.com

AIM: To classify the comparative quantity and quality of the RCT evidence of
pharmacological treatment for glaucoma.
METHOD: A systematic review of MEDLINE, EMBASE Cochrane CENTRAL and relevant
conference proceedings was conducted up to March 2007. RCTs recruiting adults
with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) and/or ocular hypertension (OH) receiving
any topical medication or placebo were included. RCTs containing a prostaglandin 
treatment arm were specifically considered.
RESULTS: A total of 510 publications were identified. Of these, 181 studies had a
prostaglandin treatment arm. The median study duration was 12 weeks (IQR 4-13)
and 78% of included trials had a duration of 3 months or less. The four studies
over 1 year in duration all included a latanoprost and timolol treatment arm.
There was a lack of data on younger populations (median of the mean ages of
included patients was 63.4 years [IQR: 61-66 years]). Caucasians constituted
79.6% of the studied population. Evidence by ethnicity as well as by
co-morbidity, was scarce. The primary outcome for 92% of studies was IOP
reduction; little was reported on other indicators. Most trials reported adverse 
events, with hyperaemia most commonly reported.
CONCLUSION: The RCT evidence base for glaucoma treatment is extensive. This
systematic review is the first to consider the characteristics of all RCTs
containing a prostaglandin arm. The majority of trials are of short duration and 
focus on IOP as the efficacy outcome. The limitations of this study are that only
trials with a prostaglandin treatment arm are included and due to the large
number of included trials only top line data were extracted.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990802273652 
PMID: 18582396  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


420. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2008 Apr;31(4):435-44.

[Risk factors for primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Bron A(1), Chaine G, Villain M, Colin J, Nordmann JP, Renard JP, Rouland JF.

Author information: 
(1)CHU Hôpital Général, Dijon. alain.bron@chu-dijon.fr

AIMS: To review the literature for risk factors involved in primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Articles and reviews studying the epidemiology and
assessment of risk factors in POAG were collected from PubMed.
RESULTS: The literature findings were divided into three categories: (1) What are
the risks of developing POAG in healthy subjects? Significant factors include
advancing age, family history of glaucoma, African origin, and elevated
intraocular pressure; (2) What are the risks of developing POAG in ocular
hypertensive patients? Significant factors include age, family history of
glaucoma, reduced central corneal thickness, pronounced elevated IOP, and IOP
fluctuations; and (3) What are the risks for progression in known cases of POAG? 
Significant factors include advancing age, elevated IOP fluctuations, IOP,
elevated cup-over-disk ratio, disc asymmetry, and disk hemorrhages.
DISCUSSION: A working knowledge of the risk factors for developing POAG and
disease progression is essential to good clinical practice. Therefore, one could 
ideally concentrate resources on populations at risk for developing the disease
as well as more actively treat those patients at risk for progression.


PMID: 18563046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Jun;24(6):1763-70. doi: 10.1185/03007990802111068.

Late-stage, primary open-angle glaucoma in Europe: social and health care
maintenance costs and quality of life of patients from 4 countries.

Thygesen J(1), Aagren M, Arnavielle S, Bron A, Fröhlich SJ, Baggesen K,
Azuara-Blanco A, Buchholz P, Walt JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital,
Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to estimate costs and quality of life
(QoL) of late-stage glaucoma patients in 4 European countries.
METHODS: Retrospective review of medical charts of patients with POAG who were
followed in a low-vision or vision rehabilitation center in one of 4 countries
for at least 1 year was used to determine patient characteristics, health status,
and health care resource use. Visual impairment was measured by best-corrected
visual acuity (Snellen score). Patients were also interviewed over the telephone 
in order to assess their health-related QoL (using EuroQol EQ-5D) and use of
resources including: the number of visits to rehabilitation centers, visits to
hospital and non-hospital specialists, the use of low-vision devices, medication,
tests, and the use of hired home help. The costs associated with resource use
were calculated from the perspective of a third-party payer of health and social 
care based on resource usage and unit costs in each country.
RESULTS: Patients undergoing visual rehabilitation in France (n=21), Denmark
(n=59), Germany (n=60), and the United Kingdom (n=22) were identified,
interviewed and had their medical charts reviewed. Annual maintenance costs of
late-stage glaucoma amounted to euro830 (+/-445) on average. Average home help
costs were more than 3 times higher. QoL, on average, was 0.65 (+/-0.28). QoL was
positively correlated with the level of visual acuity in the patients' best eye. 
On the other hand, visual acuity was also positively correlated to health care
costs, but negatively correlated to costs of home help.
CONCLUSIONS: The study was limited by its observational, uncontrolled design. The
finding that late-stage glaucoma is associated with higher home help costs than
health care maintenance costs suggests that potential savings from a better
preventive treatment are to be found for social care payers rather than health
care payers.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990802111068 
PMID: 18559164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Oftalmologia. 2007;51(4):30-3.

[Ginkgo biloba in glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Dumitrică DM(1), Stefan C.

Author information: 
(1)Spitalul Clinic de Urgenţă Militar Central Carol Davila, Clinica de
Oftalmologie, Bucureşti. dianamelinte2004@yahoo.com

The two principal directions in the therapy of the primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) are lowering intraocular pressure medication and the surgical way. None of
these two therapeutic modalities act on independent pressure risk-factors
Thinking in this direction the neuro-protection concept should be in our minds
all the time in the treatment of this disorder.


PMID: 18543670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Optom Vis Sci. 2008 Jun;85(6):406-16. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e31817841e5.

Neuroprotection in glaucoma: drug-based approaches.

Cheung W(1), Guo L, Cordeiro MF.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma & Retinal Degeneration Research Group, UCL Institute of
Ophthalmology, London, UK.

In recent years the focus of glaucoma research has shifted toward
neuroprotection, as the traditional strategies of lowering intraocular pressure
have been shown to be unable to prevent progressive vision loss in some glaucoma 
patients. As a result various neuroprotective drug-based approaches have been
shown capable of reducing the death of retinal ganglion cells, which is the
hallmark of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. There has been increasing evidence
that glaucomatous neurodegeneration is analogous to other neurodegenerative
diseases in the central nervous system, with recent work from our group
elucidating a strong link between basic cellular processes in glaucoma and
Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, there is a growing trend for using existing
neuroprotective strategies in central nervous system diseases for the treatment
of glaucoma. In fact, a trial treating patients with primary open-angle glaucoma 
with memantine, a drug approved for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, has
recently been completed. Results of this trial are not yet available. In this
review, we will examine currently advocated neuroprotective drug-based strategies
in the potential management of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e31817841e5 
PMCID: PMC2597725
PMID: 18521010  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Clin Ophthalmol. 2008 Jun;2(2):303-12.

Efficacy and tolerability of a large scale change in regimen from latanoprost to 
travoprost in glaucoma patients at the Manhattan Veterans Administration
Hospital.

Farris EP(1).

Author information: 
(1)New York University, New York, NY; Manhattan Veterans Administration Hospital,
New York, NY; New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY, USA. idoc105@optonline.net

OBJECTIVE: This retrospective study was designed to investigate the efficacy and 
tolerability of travoprost 0.004% substituted for latanoprost 0.005% in glaucoma 
patients at the Manhattan Veterans Administration Hospital.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We conducted a chart review of patients with stable 
intraocular pressure (IOP) undergoing a formulary change in regimen from
latanoprost 0.005% to travoprost 0.004%. Diagnoses included primary open angle
glaucoma, ocular hypertension, pigment dispersion glaucoma, and pseudoexfoliation
glaucoma.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome measures were IOP change between
baseline and 6 months and patient-reported adverse events throughout the study.
RESULTS: In the single therapy group (N = 60 eyes), the mean baseline IOP on
latanoprost was 15.8 mmHg; after 6 months on travoprost, it was 14.9 mmHg (p <
0.1). In the concomitant therapy group (N = 126 eyes), the mean baseline IOP was 
16.7 mmHg; after 6 months on travoprost, it was 15.9 mmHg (p < 0.01). A reduction
of IOP >/= 3 mmHg occurred in 28 eyes of 21 patients at 6 months. An increase of 
IOP >/= 3 mmHg occurred in 5 eyes of 4 patients at 6 months. One patient was
switched back to latanoprost due to irritation at 3 months. No other
patient-reported adverse events, including increased hyperemia, were observed
throughout the follow-up period.
CONCLUSIONS: A change in therapeutic regimen from latanoprost 0.005% to
travoprost 0.004% maintained IOP control in stable patients, and in some produced
a further reduction in IOP. A change in therapy from latanoprost to travoprost
was effective and well-tolerated for the glaucoma patients in this study.


PMCID: PMC2693979
PMID: 19668721  [PubMed]


425. Ghana Med J. 2007 Dec;41(4):176-80.

A review of trabeculectomies at a nigerian teaching hospital.

Adegbehingbe B(1), Majemgbasan T.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Unit, Department of Surgery, College of Health Sciences, Obafemi
Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Nigeria.

SUMMARY BACKGROUND: Trabeculectomy is the commonest surgical procedure for
glaucoma. The outcome of trabeculectomy in the treatment of all types of glaucoma
over a 4-year period in a Nigerian population was reviewed.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the surgical rate and effectiveness of trabeculectomy in 
lowering of intra ocular pressure (IOP) and preservation of visual acuity.
METHODS: Retrospective review of all trabeculectomies (TEs) done at the Obafemi
Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, Ile-Ife between January 1999 and December
2002. The outcome of trabeculectomy was correlated with the biomicroscopic
appearance of the filtering bleb, visual acuity and IOP levels. Descriptive
statistics were applied to the data.
RESULTS: Of the 647 glaucoma patients only fifty-three (8.2%), 34 males and 19
females, had trabeculectomy done during the study period. Seventy-two consecutive
eyes of these 53 Nigerian patients were operated upon. Majority, 63 (87.5%) were 
in the primary glaucoma group of which 46 (63.9%) were open angle glaucoma type. 
Nine eyes (12.5%) belonged to the secondary glaucoma group (neovascular, uveitic 
and traumatic angle recession). Successful control of intra-ocular pressure with 
medical therapy was recorded only in 13.9% of the patients. The mean
pre-operative and first post-operative day IOP were 32.5+/- 6.2mmHg and 10.6+/-
2.3mmHg respectively. Mean post-op IOP at 3 months and one year were 14.6+/-
4.2mmHg, and 13.5+/- 5.8mmHg respectively. One year after surgery 34 eyes (61.8%)
had intraocular pressure (IOP) of 20mm Hg or less without glaucoma medication.
Hyphema 11 (15.3%) was the commonest post-operative complication documented.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical intervention in the management of glaucoma, especially
trabeculectomy is not commonly done in this Teaching Hospital. IOP control with
medication alone is not adequate in the long term. A significant proportion of
the eyes (61.8%) had complete success in IOP control following trabeculectomy.


PMCID: PMC2350112
PMID: 18464899  [PubMed]


426. Ophthalmologe. 2008 May;105(5):438-44. doi: 10.1007/s00347-008-1742-y.

[Secondary glaucoma in childhood uveitis].

[Article in German]

Heinz C(1), Pleyer U, Ruokonnen P, Heiligenhaus A.

Author information: 
(1)Augenabteilung am St. Franziskus Hospital Münster, Hohenzollernring 74, 48145 
Münster. carsten.heinz@uveitis-zentrum.de

Ocular hypertension and secondary glaucoma are frequent and challenging
complications in childhood uveitis. They are commonly found in patients with
panuveitis or anterior uveitis and are often associated with juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis. Angle closure is rare, while secondary open angle glaucoma accounts
for the majority of cases and often continues after the acute inflammation has
healed. Monitoring should include tonometry, perimetry, and the objective
assessment of the optic disc and nerve fibre layer. First-line therapy should
consist of topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, followed by beta blockers, and 
then the alpha-2 agonists. Topical therapy must be monitored closely, as
drug-related systemic side effects may preferentially occur in children. Because 
topical therapy in children is commonly ineffective, surgical interventions are
often required. Reports on the use of trabeculectomy, goniosurgery, glaucoma
drainage devices, and cyclodestructive procedures show higher failure rates than 
when used for primary open angle glaucoma in adults.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-008-1742-y 
PMID: 18461333  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Ophthalmology. 2008 May;115(5):763-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.01.013.

Cerebrospinal fluid pressure is decreased in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Berdahl JP(1), Allingham RR, Johnson DH.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Eye Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
johnberdahl@gmail.com

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2008 Dec;115(12):2316-7; author reply 2317.
    Ophthalmology. 2008 May;115(5):761-2.
    Ophthalmology. 2011 Jun;118(6):1225.
    Ophthalmology. 2008 Dec;115(12):2317-8; author reply 2318.

PURPOSE: To compare cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure in patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) with that in nonglaucomatous patients.
DESIGN: Case-control study.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six subjects
underwent lumbar puncture (LP) between 1996 and 2007 at the Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minnesota. Of these, 28 patients who had POAG and 49 patients who did 
not have POAG were analyzed.
METHODS: Retrospective review of medical records. Comparison of the 2 groups and 
factors associated with CSF pressure were analyzed by univariate and multivariate
analyses.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Demographics (age and gender), medical history, medication
use, indication for LP, intraocular pressure (IOP), optic disc cup-to-disc ratio,
visual field assessment, and CSF pressure.
RESULTS: The mean CSF pressure +/- standard deviation was 13.0+/-4.2 mmHg in
nonglaucoma patients and 9.2+/-2.9 mmHg in POAG patients (P<0.00005). The CSF
pressure was lower in POAG patients regardless of indication for LP or age.
Linear regression analysis showed that cup-to-disc ratio correlated independently
with IOP (P<0.0001), CSF pressure (P<0.0001), and the translaminar pressure
difference (P<0.0001). Multivariate analysis demonstrated that larger cup-to-disc
ratio (P<0.0001) was associated with lower CSF pressure.
CONCLUSIONS: Cerebrospinal fluid pressure is significantly lower in POAG patients
compared with that in nonglaucomatous controls. These data support the notion
that CSF pressure may play an important contributory role in the pathogenesis of 
POAG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.01.013 
PMID: 18452762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Ann Afr Med. 2007 Dec;6(4):180-5.

Pattern of presentation and outcome of surgical management of primary open angle 
glaucoma in Kano, Northern Nigeria.

Lawan A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Bayero University Kano,
Nigeria. lawal1966@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is one of the leading causes of
avoidable blindness. Unlike blindness from cataracts, glaucomatous optic nerve
damage is irreversible, and prevention of glaucoma is one of the priorities of
World Health Organization (WHO) Vision 2020 program. POAG is the commonest type
of glaucoma and affects about 33.1 million people worldwide. This study is a five
year review of 71 eyes of 63 patients who had trabeculectomy. The study evaluates
the pattern of presentation and modality of surgical treatment in our
environment.
METHODS: Records of all patients with primary open angle glaucoma operated over a
five year period was retrieved. Information extracted included patients bio data,
visual acuity, gonioscopic findings, intra ocular pressure as measured with
applanation tonometer before and after surgery, and recorded in mmHg. Perimetry
was done with 2 m tangent screen and recorded in a perimetry chart. All the
patients had trabeculectomy with application of antimetabolite (5-fluorouracil). 
Extra capsular cataract extraction with or, without posterior chamber intra
ocular lens implantation was done on 13 patients. Biometry was not done on
patients with cataract. Surgery was done on better eye first in all patients.
RESULTS: There were 71 eyes of 63 patients. The male to female ratio was 3:1. The
age ranged between 18 to 75 years. 8 patients were below the age of 30 years. One
third of the patients were between the ages of 50 to 59 years. At presentation 12
patients (19%) had normal vision (WHO vision category O), 26 patients (41%) were 
visually impaired, 12 patients (19%) were severely visually impaired and 13
patients (21%) were blind (from co existing cataracts). The cup disc(c: d) ratio 
assessed before surgery was 0.5 in 9 eyes (13%), 31 eyes (53%) had c: d ratio 0.6
to 0.8 and 18 eyes had c: d ratio of 0.9. All the patients had open anterior
chamber angles (Schafer grade 3 and 4). Perimetric changes were; mild peripheral 
constriction in 5 eyes (8%), peripheral constriction with arcuate scotoma in 19
eyes (26%), constricted fields of 300 or less in 34 eyes (48%), and in 13 eyes
there was inability to fixate on target. IOP before surgery was 21 to 30 mm Hg in
12 eyes (17%), and above 31 mm Hg in 69 eyes (83%). Post operative IOP of 10 to
15 mm Hg was obtained in 58 eyes (82%) and 11 eyes (15%) had IOP of 16 to 20 mm
Hg. Only 2 eyes (3%) had IOP in the lower twenties.
CONCLUSION: Primary open angle glaucoma is characterized by late presentation.
Trabeculectomy with application of 5FU is the surgical treatment of choice in our
environment and give good intra ocular pressure control. There is need to
increase public awareness on glaucoma to limit this type of avoidable blindness.


PMID: 18354943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Am J Manag Care. 2008 Feb;14(1 Suppl):S20-7.

Current management of glaucoma and the need for complete therapy.

McKinnon SJ(1), Goldberg LD, Peeples P, Walt JG, Bramley TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology and Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center,
Box 3802, Erwin Rd, Durham, NC 27710, USA. stuart.mckinnon@duke.edu

Glaucoma is a long-term ocular neuropathy defined by optic disc or retinal nerve 
fiber structural abnormalities and visual field abnormality. Primary open-angle
glaucoma is the most common type of glaucoma. Currently available treatments,
initiated in a stepwise process, focus on intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction,
and initially include topical drug therapy (single then multidrug combinations), 
followed by laser then surgical treatment. Topical prostaglandin analogues or
beta-adrenergic receptor blockers are first used, followed by alpha-agonists or
topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, and infrequently, cholinergic agonists and
oral therapy. Limitations to existing topical IOP-reducing medications include
continued disease progression in glaucoma patients with normal IOP, treatment
failure, and low rates of compliance and persistence. Therapeutic agents under
investigation include neuroprotectants, which target the disease process
manifested by death of retinal ganglion cells, axonal loss, and irreversible loss
of vision. Neuroprotectants may be used alone or in combination with IOPreducing 
therapy (a treatment strategy called complete therapy). Memantine, an
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blocker currently approved for dementia, is the
neuroprotectant farthest along in the process seeking regulatory approval for
glaucoma treatment and has a favorable safety profile because of its selective
mechanism of action. Several other neuroprotectants are in early stage
investigation. Complete therapy provides hope for improved outcomes by reducing
the significant morbidity and economic consequences that occur as a result of
neurodegeneration and disease progression.


PMID: 18284312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Cont Lens Anterior Eye. 2008 Jun;31(3):147-53. doi: 10.1016/j.clae.2007.12.003.
Epub 2008 Mar 5.

A 10-year follow up of ocular hypertensive patients within the Bolton Corneal
Thickness Study. Can measured factors predict prognostic outcomes?

Bhatt N(1), Bhojwani R, Morrison A, Kwartz J, Laiquzzaman M, Shah S.

Author information: 
(1)Bolton Royal Infirmary, Minerva Road, Farnworth, Bolton BL4 0JR, United
Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: This is a case note review of a cohort of patients examining the
effects of central corneal thickness (CCT), presenting intraocular pressure
(IOP), age and gender on the risk of progression of ocular hypertension (OHT) to 
primary glaucoma (POAG) over a 10-year period.
DESIGN: Cohort study with retrospective case note review.
PARTICIPANTS AND METHODS: 58 case notes from a cohort at the Bolton Royal
Infirmary initially assessed 10 years ago were reviewed again. Presenting CCT,
IOP, age and gender were recorded. Development of POAG was assessed by visual
field and/or optic disc changes being present.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The effects of CCT, IOP, age and gender on the risk of
progression of OHT to POAG were analysed in a multivariate logistic regression
model following a preliminary univariate analysis.
RESULTS: 50 out of 116 eyes developed primary open angle glaucoma over the
10-year period. Thinner CCT (odds ratio 0.985 associated with each 1mum increase 
in CCT), higher presenting IOP (odds ratio 1.131 associated with each 1mmHg
increase in IOP) and increasing age (odds ratio 1.062 associated with each 1 year
increase in age) were found to be associated with progression to POAG.
CONCLUSION: Patients with a CCT of 579microm or more, a presenting intraocular
pressure of 26mmHg or less and age 75 years or less had a lower risk of
developing POAG within this cohort of patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clae.2007.12.003 
PMID: 18321766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Ophthalmology. 2008 Aug;115(8):1315-9, 1319.e1. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.12.017. Epub 2008 Mar 5.

Rates of glaucoma medication utilization among persons with primary open-angle
glaucoma, 1992 to 2002.

Stein JD(1), Ayyagari P, Sloan FA, Lee PP.

Author information: 
(1)Kellogg Eye Center, University of Michigan Department of Ophthalmology, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the percentage of Medicare beneficiaries with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) treated medically or surgically, utilization rates for
each major class of glaucoma medication, and factors influencing treatment.
DESIGN: Longitudinal observational study using data from the Medicare Current
Beneficiary Survey (MCBS).
PARTICIPANTS: Persons age 65 and older with POAG, 1992 to 2002 (N = 6446).
METHODS: By using MCBS data merged with Medicare claims, rates of medical and
surgical treatment for participants with POAG were determined. Logistic analysis 
was used to assess factors associated with use of care.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Receipt/nonreceipt of medical or surgical therapy in a
year and rates of drug utilization by class and of surgery by type among persons 
who did not receive medical therapy in a year.
RESULTS: On average from 1992 to 2002, 27.4% of persons diagnosed with POAG
received no medical or surgical treatment. Rates of nonuse increased by 3%
annually (odds ratio [OR], 1.03; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.02-1.05).
Beneficiaries with Medicaid were 43% more likely not to receive care for POAG in 
a year (OR, 1.43; 95% CI, 1.20-1.70). Hispanic, Asian, and beneficiaries of other
race/ethnicity were less likely to receive treatment than were whites. Use of
beta-blockers and miotics decreased, but utilization rates increased
substantially for alpha-agonists, combination beta-blocker-carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors, and especially prostaglandin analogs.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite availability of more efficacious glaucoma medication classes
with few side effects and findings of clinical trials underscoring the importance
of intraocular pressure reduction in POAG patients, many patients with POAG
continue to go untreated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.12.017 
PMID: 18321581  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2008 Mar;9(4):653-62. doi: 10.1517/14656566.9.4.653.

Brinzolamide.

Iester M(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Genoa, Laboratorio clinico anatomo-funzionale per diagnosi e il 
trattamento del glaucoma e della malattie neurooftalmologiche, Clinica
Oculistica, Department of Neurological Sciences, Ophthalmology, Genetic, Italy.
iester@unige.it

Primary open-angle glaucoma is a multifactorial optic neuropathy characterized by
the progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells and their axons. However, the
primary risk factor is elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), which can damage the 
optic nerve head (ONH) and until now was the only treatable risk factor.
Brinzolamide ophthalmic suspension 1% is a topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitor
that is prescribed to lower IOP up to 18% from baseline and can improve retinal
blood flow. No significant change was found in corneal thickness and corneal
endothelium cell density after 18 months of brinzolamide 1% treatment. In
clinical trials, brinzolamide 1% has been shown to be able to reduce IOP when
administered as monotherapy, adjunctive therapy or after cataract surgery.
Adverse events related to brinzolamide treatment, occurring at the time of
instillation, tended to be mild and nonserious. The most common non- ocular
adverse event was taste perversion. In the revised studies, there were no
clinically significant differences from baseline in heart rate and blood
pressure, and laboratory values for haematology, blood chemistry and urinalysis
variables did not show any changes.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.9.4.653 
PMID: 18312166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Eye (Lond). 2009 Mar;23(3):606-11. doi: 10.1038/eye.2008.47. Epub 2008 Feb 29.

Non-invasive biometric assessment of ocular rigidity in glaucoma patients and
controls.

Ebneter A(1), Wagels B, Zinkernagel MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Cantonal Hospital St Gallen, St Gallen,
Switzerland. ebneter.andreas@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To determine in vivo whether a pharmacologically induced change in
intraocular pressure (IOP) leads to measurable changes in axial eye length and
whether there is a difference between glaucoma patients and control subjects.
METHODS: 42 subjects (19 patients with primary open angle glaucoma and 23 control
patients matched for age and gender) underwent axial eye length measurement using
partial coherence laser interferometry and measurement of IOP using dynamic
contour tonometry before and 2 h after oral intake of 500 mg acetazolamide.
Student's t-test was used to compare differences in the means.
RESULTS: An identical drop in IOP was induced in both the glaucoma (mean+/-SEM:
2.90+/-0.44 mmHg, n=19) and the control group (mean+/-SEM: 3.17+/-0.32 mmHg,
n=23). The change in axial eye length was significantly smaller (P=0.026) in the 
glaucoma group (mean+/-SEM: -14.2+/-3.2 microm, n=19) compared with the control
group (mean+/-SEM: -23.0+/-2.98 microm, n=23).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results strongly suggest that the ocular rigidity is increased
in patients with established glaucoma in comparison to control subjects. Ocular
rigidity could play a role in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of glaucoma.
Determination of ocular rigidity could be helpful in detection of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2008.47 
PMID: 18309334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Clin Ophthalmol. 2008 Mar;2(1):65-9.

Differences in optic nerve structure between individuals of predominantly African
and European ancestry: Implications for disease detection and pathogenesis.

Girkin CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham School of Medicine, Department of
Ophthalmology, Birmingham, AL, USA. cgirkin@uab.edu

Glaucoma disproportionately affects individual of African ancestry. Additionally,
racial differences in the optic nerve head have been well described that may
alter the vulnerability to intraocular pressure related injury and, in addition, 
alter the clinical ability to detect the presence of early optic nerve injury.
This paper will review the literature describing racial differences in the optic 
nerve head between individuals of African and European ancestry with regards to
the potential effects of these differences on the ability to detect glaucoma in
different racial groups and to potential differences in the pathogenesis of
glaucomatous injury.


PMCID: PMC2698719
PMID: 19668389  [PubMed]


435. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2008 Mar;19(2):102-6. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3282f493b3.

Risk factors for primary open angle glaucoma progression: what we know and what
we need to know.

Rivera JL(1), Bell NP, Feldman RM.

Author information: 
(1)Robert Cizik Eye Clinic, University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston,
Texas 77030, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Recent literature is reviewed in order to identify possible
risk factors leading to primary open angle glaucoma progression and blindness.
RECENT FINDINGS: Several risk factors have been suggested to be important for
progression of open angle glaucoma. Intraocular pressure appears to be an
important risk factor for progression of glaucoma. It is still not clear if
intraocular pressure fluctuation and central corneal thickness are related to
progression. Myopia might be related to glaucoma progression as well as optic
disc hemorrhages. Vascular factors appear to be related to progression also.
Genetics seem to play an important role in open angle glaucoma.
SUMMARY: Identifying risk factors associated with progression of patients with
primary open angle glaucoma is essential to our clinical practices. The level of 
understanding regarding those risks is suboptimal at this point. Prospective
long-term studies are needed if we wish to better understand the disease and help
those patients at greater risk of progression and blindness.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3282f493b3 
PMID: 18301282  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2008 Mar;19(2):85-8. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3282f3919b.

Normal-tension glaucoma: is it different from primary open-angle glaucoma?

Shields MB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. bruce.shields@yale.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) is a common form of open-angle
glaucoma throughout the world, and yet there are many unanswered questions
regarding both the mechanisms of the optic neuropathy and the treatment of these 
patients. The present review considers how recent literature advances our
understanding of both the mechanisms of glaucomatous damage and the treatment of 
patients with NTG.
RECENT FINDINGS: The main theme in the current literature continues to be that
NTG and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) represent a continuum of open-angle
glaucomas, in which a certain level of intraocular pressure (IOP) is the
predominant causative risk factor in POAG, while additional IOP-independent
factors take increasing importance in NTG. There is considerable overlap between 
the two conditions, however, and within the population of NTG patients there are 
subsets in which IOP, blood flow and other factors assume relative importance.
SUMMARY: In clinical practice, control of IOP remains the mainstay of managing
NTG patients, but consideration must also be given to other factors, especially
those that may influence perfusion of the optic nerve head. Treatment paradigms
will likely change as researchers continue to investigate the mechanisms of
glaucomatous optic neuropathy and search for IOP-independent neuroprotective
agents.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3282f3919b 
PMID: 18301279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2008 May;49(5):1924-31. doi: 10.1167/iovs.07-1425.
Epub 2008 Feb 8.

Caffeine consumption and the risk of primary open-angle glaucoma: a prospective
cohort study.

Kang JH(1), Willett WC, Rosner BA, Hankinson SE, Pasquale LR.

Author information: 
(1)Channing Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Brigham & Women's Hospital and
Harvard Medical School, 181 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
nhjhk@channing.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: To investigate whether caffeine, which transiently increases intraocular
pressure (IOP) is associated with the risk of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: A total of 79,120 women from 1980 to 2004 and 42,052 men from 1986 to
2004, who were 40+ years of age, did not have POAG, and reported undergoing eye
examinations, were observed. Information on caffeine consumption, potential
confounders, and POAG diagnoses were repeatedly updated in validated follow-up
questionnaires. One thousand eleven incident POAG cases were confirmed with
medical record review. Cohort-specific and pooled analyses across cohorts were
conducted to calculate multivariate rate ratios (RRs).
RESULTS: Compared with daily intake of less than 150 mg, the pooled multivariate 
RRs were 1.05 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.89-1.25) for consumption of 150 to
299 mg/d, 1.19 (95% CI, 0.99-1.43) for 300 to 449 mg/d, 1.13 (95% CI, 0.89-1.43) 
for 450 to 559 mg/d, and 1.17 (95% CI, 0.90-1.53) for 600+ mg/d (P for trend =
0.11). However, for consumption of five or more cups of caffeinated coffee daily,
the RR was 1.61 (95% CI, 1.00-2.59; P for trend = 0.02); tea or caffeinated cola 
intake were not associated with risk. Greater caffeine intake was more adversely 
associated with POAG among those reporting a family history of glaucoma,
particularly in relation to POAG with elevated IOP (P for trend = 0.0009; P
interaction = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Overall caffeine intake was not associated with increased risk of
POAG. However, in secondary analyses, caffeine appeared to elevate risk of
high-tension POAG among those with a family history of glaucoma. This result may 
be due to chance, but warrants further study.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.07-1425 
PMCID: PMC3100584
PMID: 18263806  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2008 Jan;225(1):30-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1027124.

[Surgery of primary open angle glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Grehn F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Würzburg. f.grehn@augenklinik.uni-wuerzburg.de

Comment in
    Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2008 Jun;225(6):597; author reply 597.

The selection of the surgical approach to glaucoma depends primarily on the type 
of glaucoma. Filtration surgery (trabeculectomy) is considered the gold standard 
for the most common form of glaucoma, primary open angle glaucoma. The technique 
of surgery has been continuously improved during the past years resulting in less
immediate postoperative complications such as flat anterior chamber, choroidal
detachment and hypotony. The major problem of glaucoma surgery nowadays is wound 
healing with scarring of the outflow area. By intensified postoperative care
using antimetabolites at the time of surgery and during postoperative care, many 
problems of scar formation can be managed. The absolute success rate may be
doubled by using intensified postoperative care. Non-penetrating surgery such as 
deep sclerectomy or trabeculotomy are effective; however, the amount of IOP
lowering achieved is inferior to that of trabeculectomy. To select a special
glaucoma surgical procedure, the individual target pressure for the respective
patient has to be defined. Recent large randomised prospective studies have shown
that a low target pressure is needed to preserve and stabilise the visual field
in advanced cases. Glaucoma filtration surgery is an important mainstay of
advanced glaucoma treatment.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1027124 
PMID: 18236367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Semin Ophthalmol. 2008 Jan-Feb;23(1):19-25. doi: 10.1080/08820530701745199.

Clinical and genetic characteristics of primary juvenile-onset open-angle
glaucoma (JOAG).

Turalba AV(1), Chen TC.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114,
USA. angela_turalba@meei.harvard.edu

Juvenile-onset open-angle glaucoma (JOAG) is an autosomal dominant disease
characterized by an early age of onset and severely elevated intraocular
pressures. Large JOAG pedigrees have been pivotal in genetic linkage analyses
that have helped establish the association between JOAG and the myocilin gene
(MYOC). Numerous disease-causing MYOC mutations have now been identified, and
additional loci on other chromosomes have been linked to JOAG. Ongoing molecular 
genetic studies on myocilin and the search for new gene defects associated with
JOAG may offer new directions in our scientific understanding and clinical
management of open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1080/08820530701745199 
PMID: 18214788  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Am J Ophthalmol. 2008 Mar;145(3):575-581. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.10.009. Epub
2008 Jan 11.

A panel assessment of glaucoma management: modification of existing RAND-like
methodology for consensus in ophthalmology. Part II: Results and interpretation.

Singh K(1), Lee BL, Wilson MR; Glaucoma Modified RAND-Like Methodology Group.

Collaborators: Budenz DL, Coleman A, Fellman R, Girken C, Hampton C, Herndon L,
Krupin T, Liebmann JM, Miller K, Minckler DS, Netland P, Lee PP, Singh K, Weinreb
RN, Wilson MR, Lee BL, Parrish RK 2nd.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Department of Ophthalmology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.

PURPOSE: To present the results of a panel consensus assessment of evaluation and
therapy relating to primary open-angle glaucoma based on available evidence and
expert opinion.
DESIGN: A panel consensus assessment of glaucoma diagnosis and therapy using a
modified RAND-like appropriateness methodology.
METHODS: One hundred and forty-eight questions, most of which related to glaucoma
therapy, were created by a core nonvoting executive committee based on common
clinical questions. An evidence-based review of the literature pertaining to
these questions was provided to 10 voting panelists. These panelists, who did not
participate in either the creation of the questions or the conduct of the
literature review, then were polled using a modified technique derived from
existing methodology.
RESULTS: Consensus agreement or disagreement was reached for 55.4% and 74.3% of
the polling statements before and after the panel meeting, respectively. This
represents a consensus agreement or disagreement on a majority of polling
statements both before and after a meeting of all panelists and the two co-chairs
of the program. There was an increase in the proportion of statements where
consensus agreement was reached after the panel meeting.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the paucity of high-quality evidence relating to many of the
issues addressed in this assessment and the variability of practice patterns
among ophthalmologists, consensus agreement or disagreement was reached for a
high proportion of polling statements.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.10.009 
PMID: 18191098  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Am J Ophthalmol. 2008 Mar;145(3):570-574. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.10.019. Epub
2008 Jan 11.

A panel assessment of glaucoma management: modification of existing RAND-like
methodology for consensus in ophthalmology. Part I: Methodology and design.

Wilson MR(1), Lee PP, Weinreb RN, Lee BL, Singh K; Glaucoma Modified RAND-Like
Methodology Group.

Collaborators: Budenz DL, Coleman A, Fellman R, Girken C, Hampton C, Herndon L,
Krupin T, Liebmann JM, Miller K, Minckler DS, Netland P, Parrish RK 2nd, Lee PP, 
Singh K, Weinreb RN, Wilson MR, Lee BL.

Author information: 
(1)University of Colorado Denver, Denver, Colorado, USA.

PURPOSE: To examine ways to improve existing methodology to reach appropriate
consensus in the treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma.
DESIGN: Evidence-based literature and accumulated expert opinion.
METHODS: A core nonvoting steering committee composed of four individuals created
148 statements. Another nonvoting individual with expertise in clinical
epidemiology reviewed all evidence in support of or against each statement and
summarized this information. After review of these summaries, 10 panelists voted 
on each of the statements both before and after a panel meeting where each
question was discussed by the panel. The polling was conducted online using a
customized software program for the process.
RESULTS: Consensus was reached on most statements both before and after the panel
meeting. The proportion of questions where consensus agreement or disagreement
was reached increased from 82 of 148 before the panel meeting to 110 of 148 after
the meeting. Detailed information regarding the results of the polling are
provided in the accompanying article.(1)
CONCLUSIONS: Refinements to existing descriptions of modified RAND-like
appropriateness methodology was successful in allowing a group of ophthalmology
panelists to reach consensus for or against most statements developed by
nonpanelists. Future studies should be conducted to compare how robust and valid 
this methodology is as compared with other methods of determining optimal
clinical care decision making.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.10.019 
PMID: 18191095  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Patient Prefer Adherence. 2008 Feb 2;2:303-14.

Medical management of primary open-angle glaucoma: Best practices associated with
enhanced patient compliance and persistency.

Kulkarni SV(1), Damji KF, Buys YM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Ottawa Eye Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada;

Primary open angle glaucoma is a chronic optic neuropathy often requiring
lifelong treatment. Patient compliance, adherence and persistence with therapy
play a vital role in improved outcomes by reducing morbidity and the economic
consequences that are associated with disease progression. A literature review
including searches of The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, PubMed, conference
proceedings, and bibliographies of identified articles reveals the enormous
public health burden in various populations due to the impact of glaucoma
associated visual impairment on the overall quality of life eg, fear of
blindness, inability to work in certain occupations, driving restrictions, motor 
vehicle accidents, falls, and general health status. Providing specific
definitions for the frequently misunderstood terms "compliance, persistence and
adherence" with reference to medication use is central not only for monitoring
patients' drug dosing histories and clinical outcomes but also for subsequent
research. In this review article, a summary of the advantages/disadvantages
including cost-effectiveness of various medical approaches to glaucoma treatment,
techniques employed for measuring patient compliance and actual patient
preferences for therapy are outlined. We conclude by identifying the key barriers
to ongoing treatment and suggest some best practices to enhance compliance and
persistence.


PMCID: PMC2770384
PMID: 19920977  [PubMed]


443. Oftalmologia. 2008;52(4):15-25.

[The role of Cosopt in glaucoma treatment].

[Article in Romanian]

Călugăru D(1), Călugăru M.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica de Oftalmologie Cluj-Napoca.

The fixed combination of dorzolamide and timolol (Cosopt) represents a high
effective therapy and is generally well tolerated. It produces a baro-protection 
similarly to that caused by both the prostaglandin analogs and the other
topically fixed combinations. Cosopt is the only hypotensive medication that
produces a direct vasoprotection by increasing retrobulbar, choroidal, retinal
and optic nerve head blood flow. Its major indication is as second line therapy
e.g. after the failure of a previously given monotherapy Cosopt is also indicated
as an initial therapy (first line therapy) in ocular hypertensions associated
with high risk factors of conversion, in some well chosen cases of primary
open-angle glaucoma (e.g. glaucomas with untreated intraocular pressure of
greater than 30 mmHg), in exfoliation glaucoma as well as in the majority forms
of secondary glaucoma.


PMID: 19354158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2008 Jan;19(1):27-30.

Pathophysiology of zonular diseases.

Dureau P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fondation Ophtalmologique Adolphe de Rothschild, Pediatric Ophthalmology
Department, Paris, France. pdureau@fo-rothschild.fr

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The mechanisms implicated in the clinical manifestations of
zonular diseases, especially ectopia lentis, are reviewed.
RECENT FINDINGS: The molecular mechanisms involve fibrillin in a large spectrum
of heritable diseases characterized by zonular stretching. The usual
complications are refractive errors, especially myopia, glaucoma (either primary 
open angle, secondary angle closure and pupil block by anterior displacement of
the lens) and retinal detachment.
SUMMARY: The genetics and molecular understanding provide information for genetic
counseling. Treatment of myopia and glaucoma depend on the underlying mechanism, 
and lens surgery techniques are continuously improved.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3282f29f01 
PMID: 18090894  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


445. J AAPOS. 2008 Apr;12(2):166-72. Epub 2007 Dec 21.

Antimetabolite and releasable suture augmented filtration surgery in refractory
pediatric glaucomas.

Low S(1), Hamada S, Nischal KK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Academic Ophthalmology, Great Ormond Street
Hospital for Children, London, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: To evaluate childhood filtration surgery when using releasable sutures, 
antimetabolites, and bleb-needling with 5-fluorouracil (5FU).
METHODS: Retrospective case note review of 30 patients (38 eyes) with childhood
glaucoma presenting between 1999 and 2004 to a tertiary pediatric ophthalmology
center. Either trabeculectomy or combined trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy using
antimetabolites, releasable sutures, and bleb modification was performed.
Successful outcomes for survival analysis were measured intraocular pressures <
or =21 mmHg, with two or less topical medications.
RESULTS: Patients under 1 year old had trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy; the
remainder had trabeculectomy alone. One case of primary congenital glaucoma had
trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy at 24 months. Eighty-nine percent had previous
failed glaucoma surgery. Twenty-five patients (33 eyes) had primary congenital
glaucoma; 5 patients (5 eyes) had secondary glaucoma (aphakia or pseudophakia).
Mean follow-up was 22.9 months (5.2-68.5). Sixty-six percent of all eyes had
suture-release and 68% had bleb-needling (mean, 1.9 times). Five eyes (13%)
needed further drainage tube surgery. Complications were early postoperative
hypotony in three cases, requiring anterior chamber reinflation (mean age, 7.4
months at the time of surgery), two cases of transient wound leak, but no
bleb-related complications or endophthalmitis. No blebs were avascular, or thin
and cystic. Cumulative success was 75% for primary, but only 21% for secondary
glaucoma at final follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Antimetabolite and releasable augmentation of filtration surgery
appear to give favorable outcomes in the treatment of refractory primary
pediatric glaucomas. Secondary glaucomas after cataract surgery do not show good 
long-term success. There were no major or sight-threatening complications in our 
series; no eyes developed cystic avascular blebs or bleb-related infections.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaapos.2007.09.012 
PMID: 18083595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Surv Ophthalmol. 2007 Nov;52 Suppl 2:S101-4.

What increases outflow resistance in primary open-angle glaucoma?

Tamm ER(1), Fuchshofer R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of Regensburg, Germany.

Intraocular pressure, the most critical risk factor for primary open-angle
glaucoma is generated in the trabecular meshwork outflow pathways, which provide 
resistance to aqueous humor outflow. The resistance is increased in primary
open-angle glaucoma, and changes in the quality and amount of the extracellular
matrix in the juxtacanalicular region of the trabecular meshwork appear to be
causatively involved. The extracellular matrix changes are very likely under
control of transforming growth factor-beta2 (TGF-beta2), which is found at high
concentrations in the aqueous humor of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
Additional factors are thrombospondin-1, which activates TGF-beta2 in vivo, and
connective tissue growth factor, which is an important downstream mediator of the
effects of TGF-beta2 on trabecular meshwork extracellular matrix turnover. In
contrast, bone morphogenetic protein-7 (BMP-7) strongly antagonizes fibrogenic
actions of TGF-beta2 on human trabecular meshwork cells, indicating that a
pharmacological modulation of BMP-7 signalling might be a promising strategy to
treat primary open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2007.08.002 
PMID: 17998032  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007 Oct 17;(4):CD003167.

Medical interventions for primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Vass C(1), Hirn C, Sycha T, Findl O, Bauer P, Schmetterer L.

Author information: 
(1)Vienna Medical University, Department of Ophthalmology, Währinger Gürtel
18-20, Wien, Austria, A-1090. clemens.vass@meduniwien.ac.at

BACKGROUND: Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a progressive optic neuropathy 
with an elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), where the optic nerve head becomes
pathologically excavated and the visual field (VF) is characteristically altered.
Ocular hypertension (OHT) is a condition with elevated IOP but without
discernible pathology of the optic nerve head or the VF. It is a major risk
factor for development of POAG.
OBJECTIVES: To assess and compare the effectiveness of topical pharmacological
treatment for POAG or OHT to prevent progression or onset of glaucomatous optic
neuropathy.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE and EMBASE in May 2007. We searched
the bibliographies of identified articles and contacted experts, investigators
and pharmaceutical companies for additional published and unpublished studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials comparing topical
pharmacological treatment to placebo, no treatment or other treatment for
specified endpoints which included people with POAG or OHT, and with duration of 
treatment of at least one year.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently extracted data and
assessed trial quality. Where appropriate, we summarised data using Peto odds
ratio and mean difference after testing for heterogeneity between studies.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 26 trials, which randomised 4979 participants, in this 
review. Meta-analysis of 10 trials clearly demonstrated reduction of onset of VF 
defects in treated OHT (OR 0.62, 95% CI 0.47 to 0.81). No single drug showed a
significant VF protection compared to placebo or untreated controls. We did
identify some border line evidence for a positive influence of treatment on VF
prognosis (OR 0.67, 95% CI 0.45 to 1.00) for the beta-blockers .
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The results of this review support the current practice of 
IOP lowering treatment of OHT. A visual field protective effect has been clearly 
demonstrated for medical IOP lowering treatment. Positive but weak evidence for a
beneficial effect of the class of beta-blockers has been shown. Direct
comparisons of prostaglandins or brimonidine to placebo are not available and the
comparison of dorzolamide to placebo failed to demonstrate a protective effect.
However, absence of data or failure to prove effectiveness should not be
interpreted as proof of absence of any effect. The decision to treat a patient or
not, as well as the decision regarding the drug with which to start treatment,
should remain individualised, taking in to account the amount of damage, the
level of IOP, age and other patient characteristics.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003167.pub3 
PMID: 17943780  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


448. BMC Ophthalmol. 2007 Oct 5;7:17.

Interpretation of uniocular and binocular trials of glaucoma medications: an
observational case series.

Leffler CT(1), Amini L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Virginia Commonwealth University, MCV Campus, MCV
Box 980209, Richmond, VA 23298, USA. cleffler@pol.net

BACKGROUND: To predict the effectiveness of topical glaucoma medications based on
initial uniocular and binocular treatment. To test a traditional hypothesis that 
effectiveness following a uniocular trial is associated with the change in IOP in
the initially treated eye minus the change in the initially untreated eye. To
determine whether uniocular or binocular treatment trials are superior.
METHODS: Based on a review of medical records, we identified 168 instances in 154
patients with bilateral primary open angle glaucoma of initial uniocular use of a
topical glaucoma medication with well-documented intraocular pressure (IOP)
readings at baseline (IOP(A)), during the trial (IOP(B)), and at follow-up
(IOP(C)). Abstracted data included demographic data, IOP, and medication use.
Predictors of the IOP following the trial (IOP(C)) in each eye were identified by
multivariable linear regression. In 70 cases, the predictive ability of initial
uniocular and binocular treatment could be directly compared.
RESULTS: In a multivariable analysis, the follow-up pressure in the initially
treated eye (IOP(1C)) was directly correlated with treated eye IOP during initial
uniocular use (IOP(1B), p < 0.001). In a multivariable analysis, the follow-up
pressure in the initially untreated eye (IOP(2C)) was directly correlated with
its baseline IOP(2A) (p < 0.001), and also tended to be associated with treated
IOP(1B) (p = 0.07). The multivariable regression coefficient (b) for the IOP
change in the initially untreated eye was generally not close to the value of -1 
expected by the classic teaching (for eye 1, b = 0.04, p = 0.35; for eye 2, b =
0.07, p = 0.50). In 70 cases, the uniocular and binocular trials predicted a
similar fraction of the variance in follow-up IOP(1C) (r(2) = 0.56 and 0.57,
respectively) and IOP(2C) (r(2) = 0.39 and 0.38, respectively).
CONCLUSION: 1) For uniocular trials, the IOP change in the untreated eye should
not be subtracted from that in the treated eye. 2) Uniocular and binocular trials
have similar predictive value when interpreted correctly. Either may be selected 
based on clinical circumstances.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-7-17 
PMCID: PMC2093925
PMID: 17916260  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol. 2008;48:333-58.

Role of CYP1B1 in glaucoma.

Vasiliou V(1), Gonzalez FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Toxicology & Environmental Health Sciences Program, Department of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver,
CO 80262, USA. vasilis.vasiliou@uchsc.edu

Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness, estimated to affect 60 million people
by 2010, and represents a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disease. The
two major types of glaucoma include primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and
primary congenital glaucoma (PCG). A genetically heterogeneous group of
developmental disorders known as anterior segment dysgenesis (ASD) have been
reported to be associated with increased intraocular pressure (IOP) and glaucoma.
These include Peters' anomaly, Rieger's anomaly, aniridia, iris hypoplasia, and
iridogoniodysgenesis. Genetic linkage analysis and mutation studies have
identified CYP1B1 as a causative gene in PCG, as a modifier gene in POAG, and, on
rare occasions, as causative gene in POAG as well as in several ASD disorders.
CYP1B1-deficient mice exhibit abnormalities in their ocular drainage structure
and trabecular meshwork that are similar to those reported in human PCG patients.
Accordingly, it is speculated that diminished or absent metabolism of key
endogenous CYP1B1 substrates adversely affects the development of the trabecular 
meshwork. CYP1B1 protein is involved in the metabolism of steroids, retinol and
retinal, arachidonate, and melatonin. The conserved expression of CYP1B1 in both 
murine and human eyes, its higher expression in fetal than adult eyes, and its
biochemical properties are consistent with this hypothesis. The exact role of
CYP1B1 in the pathogenesis of glaucoma and other ASD disorders remains to be
elucidated.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.pharmtox.48.061807.154729 
PMID: 17914928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Ophthalmology. 2007 Sep;114(9):1779-87.

Corneal thickness measurement in the management of primary open-angle glaucoma: a
report by the American Academy of Ophthalmology.

Dueker DK, Singh K, Lin SC, Fechtner RD, Minckler DS, Samples JR, Schuman JS.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate published literature to assess whether central corneal
thickness (CCT) is a risk factor for the presence, development, or progression of
glaucomatous optic nerve damage related to primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: A PubMed literature search limited to English language articles
conducted on November 15, 2004 retrieved 195 articles. The authors reviewed these
abstracts and selected 57 to review in full text to determine relevance to the
assessment questions. A further 24 studies of interest were identified from
periodic updates to the literature search, surveillance of the literature, and
reference lists of reviewed articles. From the 81 published reports identified,
the first author applied specified selection criteria that yielded 37 articles
for methodological review because of relevance to the assessment questions. The
articles were rated according to the strength of evidence by the panel
methodologist. A level I rating was assigned to well-designed properly conducted 
randomized clinical trials or similar quality-validated cohort studies with
appropriate reference standards. A level II rating was assigned to well-designed 
case-control studies, exploratory cohort studies, and other nonrandomized
clinical studies lacking consistently applied reference standards. A level III
rating was reserved for poorly designed case-control studies, case series, and
papers consisting only of expert opinion without supporting evidence. In
addition, each study was graded as positive if it supported a statistical
association of CCT with the risk of having or developing glaucomatous optic nerve
damage or as negative if no such association was found.
RESULTS: There is strong and consistent level I and level II evidence that CCT is
a risk factor for progression from ocular hypertension to POAG. Studies that were
rated as providing the highest quality of evidence revealed mixed results with
respect to glaucoma prevalence. One population-based study (level II) showed a
positive association, another larger study (level I) revealed an association of
marginal significance, and 3 studies (all level I) found no association of CCT
with POAG prevalence.
CONCLUSIONS: There is strong evidence that measuring CCT is an important
component of a complete ocular examination, particularly for patients being
evaluated for the risk of developing POAG. Therefore, CCT measurement should be
included in the examination of all patients with ocular hypertension. Although
the evidence supporting the necessity of measuring CCT as part of screening for
POAG or as a risk factor for glaucoma progression is not as strong, intraocular
pressure (IOP) is the only modifiable risk factor in the treatment of glaucoma,
and CCT has the potential to significantly impact IOP measurement by applanation 
tonometry in all patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.04.068 
PMID: 17822980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Eye (Lond). 2009 Jan;23(1):132-40. Epub 2007 Aug 24.

Cost-effectiveness of latanoprost and timolol maleate for the treatment of
glaucoma in Scandinavia and the United Kingdom, using a decision-analytic health 
economic model.

Stewart WC(1), Stewart JA, Mychaskiw MA.

Author information: 
(1)PRN Pharmaceutical Research Network, LLC, Charleston, SC, USA. info@prnorb.com

Comment in
    Eye (Lond). 2009 Dec;23(12):2264; author reply 2264.

PURPOSE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of latanoprost or timolol in glaucoma
treatment in Norway, Sweden, Denmark (Scandinavia) and the United Kingdom (UK).
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to perform a cost-effectiveness analysis.
Health states were 'stable' and 'progressed' glaucoma, and transition
probabilities for both primary open-angle and exfoliation glaucoma were derived
from the medical literature. Practice patterns were obtained from surveys
completed by 54 ophthalmologists geographically dispersed throughout each
country. Country specific unit costs were used for medications, patient visits,
diagnostics, and therapeutic procedures.
RESULTS: Over the life of the model latanoprost was less expensive than timolol
by 5.3-7.6% (Scandinavia) and 2.1% (UK). Following adjustments, therapy in the
original timolol-treated cohort was slightly more effective in each country with 
a difference in 0.003-0.015 years to progression of glaucoma existing between
latanoprost. This may have resulted from the model design, which reflected that
physicians ultimately control most patients' glaucoma over 5 years by adding or
changing therapy. The associated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for
latanoprost vs timolol generated by the Scandinavian and the UK models,
respectively, were: Norway 351,396 NOK; Sweden 988,985 SEK; Denmark 351,641; and 
the UK 4751 GBP.
CONCLUSIONS: Over 5 years, in the UK timolol is the cost-effective option,
whereas in Scandinavia latanoprost may be the cost-effective alternative to
timolol.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702964 
PMID: 17721497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 2007;(304):111-6.

[Origin of corticosteroid glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Bremer F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, Hôpital Erasme, Université Libre de Bruxelles,
Bruxelles. francoise.bremer@coditel.net

Cortisonic glaucoma is frequent, clinically similar to chronic open angle
glaucoma but directly linked to a corticosteroid treatment. Four risk factors are
involved in the hypertonic effect of steroids: genetic ground: primary open angle
glaucoma, diabetes, myopia, young age; intraocular penetrance and
anti-inflammatory efficacy; the mode and duration of administration.


PMID: 17718235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


453. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007 Aug 6;7:124.

Development of the conceptual framework for the Eye-Drop Satisfaction
Questionnaire (EDSQ) in glaucoma using a qualitative study.

Nordmann JP(1), Denis P, Vigneux M, Trudeau E, Guillemin I, Berdeaux G.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital des XV XX, Paris, France. j.p.nordmann@quinze-vingts.fr
<j.p.nordmann@quinze-vingts.fr>

BACKGROUND: Compliance is a major issue in glaucoma care. It is usually poor in
glaucomatous patients, and may ultimately result in an acceleration of the
disease progression and a risk of blindness. Reasons for this poor compliance are
complex and multifactorial, amongst which patient satisfaction can be counted.
The objective of this study was to develop a questionnaire to assess patient
satisfaction and compliance with eye-drop treatment.
METHODS: A qualitative study was carried out to develop the questionnaire. An
interview guide was developed based on a literature review. Structured interviews
of fifteen French and English patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or
intraocular hypertension were conducted by trained interviewers of the native
language of the interviewees. General concepts and subconcepts were identified
from the transcripts. The questionnaire was developed using the patient verbatim,
and submitted to six patients (French and English) for cognitive debriefing.
Following patients' comments, items were modified and restructured, and a pilot
questionnaire was designed.
RESULTS: Analysis of data from the interviews with patients and clinicians
resulted in the elicitation of concepts related to patient satisfaction and
compliance with glaucomatous treatment. These were further refined and used to
generate a test questionnaire, which consisted of 46 items grouped into 6
domains: patient characteristics, treatment characteristics, patient-clinician
relationship, patient experience with the disease and the treatment, interaction 
between the patient and the treatment, and patient knowledge of the disease and
the treatment.
CONCLUSION: The Eye-Drop Satisfaction Questionnaire (EDSQ) conceptual framework
and items were developed simultaneously in French and in English. This
questionnaire could be used to evaluate patient satisfaction and compliance with 
eye-drop treatment and would facilitate the identification of patients at risk of
being non-compliant prior to clinical trials or innovative device tests. A
psychometric study is under way to validate the questionnaire.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-124 
PMCID: PMC1973077
PMID: 17683594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Niger J Clin Pract. 2007 Mar;10(1):79-82.

A review of the risk factors in primary open angle glaucoma.

Omoti AE(1), Edema OT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University ofBenin Teaching Hospital, Benin City,
Nigeria. afeomoti@yahoo.com

The aetiology of primary open-angle glaucoma is still uncertain. However certain 
factors are known or suspected of having an aetiologic role. These are known as
the risk factors. These include higher intraocular pressures, black race, old age
especially after the age of 40 years, the peculiar larger optic disc structure of
black people, a positive family history, vascular factors such as systemic
hypertension, perfusion pressure, vasospasm, atherosclerosis and acute
hypotension which is a risk factor for normal-tension glaucoma. Others are
diabetes, which is prone to selection bias, myopia, a history of typical migraine
headaches, thinner central corneal thickness and the ability to taste
phenylthiourea. If a particular patient is identified as having one or more of
these risk factors, that patient is by definition, at greater risk of developing 
glaucoma than a patient who does not.


PMID: 17668721  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2007 May-Jun;14(3):141-7.

Prospective study of alcohol consumption and the risk of primary open-angle
glaucoma.

Kang JH(1), Willett WC, Rosner BA, Hankinson SE, Pasquale LR.

Author information: 
(1)Channing Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School and
Brigham & Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
nhjhk@channing.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: Alcohol intake reduces intraocular pressure, a risk factor for primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG). We investigated whether alcohol consumption is
associated with a reduced risk of POAG.
METHODS: We followed female nurses from 1980 and male health professionals from
1986 to 2002. Eligible participants were 40+ years old, did not have POAG, and
reported receiving eye examinations during follow-up. Information on alcohol
consumption, potential confounders and POAG diagnoses were updated by using
biennial questionnaires. We identified 856 self-reported POAG cases that were
confirmed with medical record review. Cohort-specific and pooled analyses across 
cohorts were conducted to calculate multivariable rate ratios (RR) of POAG.
RESULTS: Alcohol consumption<30 g/day did not influence POAG risk: compared with 
non-drinkers, the pooled RRs were 0.99 (95% Confidence Interval [CI]: 0.83-1.19) 
for drinking<10 g/day, 0.96 (95% CI: 0.76-1.22) for 10-19 g/day, and 0.95 (95%
CI: 0.68-1.33) for 20-29 g/day. Although there were suggestive inverse
associations with drinking>30 g/day (RR=0.71), this was not significant (95% CI: 
0.49-1.04), and no significant linear associations were detected. Risks of POAG
did not differ by type of alcoholic beverage consumed. To evaluate the potential 
for detection bias, we controlled for additional factors, such as frequency of
eye exams, but results were similar.
CONCLUSION: In this large prospective study of men and women, alcohol consumption
did not influence the risk of POAG.

DOI: 10.1080/09286580601187963 
PMID: 17613849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Drugs Aging. 2007;24(6):509-28.

Ocular carteolol: a review of its use in the management of glaucoma and ocular
hypertension.

Henness S(1), Swainston Harrison T, Keating GM.

Author information: 
(1)Wolters Kluwer Health | Adis, Auckland, New Zealand.

Ocular carteolol (Mikelan), Teoptic, Ocupress) is a nonselective
beta-adrenoceptor antagonist with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA).
Ocular carteolol effectively reduces intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with 
open-angle glaucoma (OAG) or ocular hypertension (OH). Twice-daily administration
of standard carteolol has generally similar IOP-lowering efficacy to other ocular
beta-adrenoceptor antagonists such as timolol, betaxolol and metipranolol in
patients with OAG or OH. In addition, long-term treatment with carteolol has
similar efficacy to timolol and betaxolol in terms of reducing IOP and
maintaining visual fields in patients with newly diagnosed primary OAG (POAG).
The new long-acting formulation of once-daily carteolol has equivalent efficacy
to the standard formulation of carteolol administered twice daily in patients
with OAG or OH. Both the standard and long-acting formulations of ocular
carteolol are generally well tolerated in terms of topical adverse effects
involving the eyes or systemic adverse effects involving the cardiovascular
system. Thus, twice-daily carteolol is a well established option in the treatment
of glaucoma and OH, and the new once-daily formulation of long-acting carteolol
offers similar efficacy and tolerability with a potential for improved patient
adherence.


PMID: 17571916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Clin Ophthalmol. 2007 Jun;1(2):93-7.

Levobetaxolol hydrochloride: a review of its pharmacology and use in the
treatment of chronic open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Quaranta L(1), Turano R, Pizzolante T.

Author information: 
(1)"Centro per lo Studio del Glaucoma" Spedali Civili di Brescia, Università
degli Studi di Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

Levobetaxolol is a cardioselective beta-blocker that has been demonstrated to
reduce intraocular pressure in patients affected with primary open-angle glaucoma
and ocular hypertension. Levobetaxolol may be an effective neuroprotectant
because of its great capacity to block sodium and calcium influx, which might
confer a neuroprotective activity. Experimental and clinical studies have
demonstrated the effects of levobetaxolol on ocular hemodynamics and visual
field, and the pharmacologic differences between beta-blockers currently used for
the treatment of elevated IOP have become of more than academic interest since a 
number of studies have shown improvements to various extents. Unlike the
initially manufactured 0.5% ophthalmic solution, levobetaxolol is suspended in a 
different delivery vehicle in levobetaxolol ophthalmic suspension, to increase
the ocular tolerance and allow a similarity of effect with a 2-fold reduced
concentration (0.25%).


PMCID: PMC2704505
PMID: 19668496  [PubMed]


458. Br J Ophthalmol. 2007 Jun;91(6):710-4.

Prevalence of glaucoma in rural Myanmar: the Meiktila Eye Study.

Casson RJ(1), Newland HS, Muecke J, McGovern S, Abraham L, Shein WK, Selva D,
Aung T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, South Australian Institute of
Ophthalmology, Adelaide University, Adelaide 5000, South Australia, Australia.
robert.casson@adelaide.edu.au

AIM: To determine the prevalence of glaucoma in the Meiktila district of central,
rural Myanmar.
METHODS: A cross-sectional, population-based survey of inhabitants > or =40 years
of age from villages in Meiktila district, Myanmar, was performed; 2481 eligible 
participants were identified and 2076 participated in the study. The ophthalmic
examination included Snellen visual acuity, slit-lamp examination, tonometry,
gonioscopy, dilated stereoscopic fundus examination and full-threshold perimetry.
Glaucoma was classified into clinical subtypes and categorised into three levels 
according to diagnostic evidence.
RESULTS: Glaucoma was diagnosed in 1997 (80.5%) participants. The prevalence of
glaucoma of any category in at least one eye was 4.9% (95% CI 4.1 to 5.7; n =
101). The overall prevalence of primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) was 2.5%
(95% CI 1.5 to 3.5) and of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) was 2.0% (95% CI
0.9 to 3.1). PACG accounted for 84% of all blindness due to glaucoma, with the
majority due to acute angle-closure glaucoma (AACG).
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of glaucoma in the population aged > or =40 years in
rural, central Myanmar was 4.9%. The ratio of PACG to POAG was approximately
1.25:1. PACG has a high visual morbidity and AACG is visually devastating in this
community. Screening programmes should be directed at PACG, and further study of 
the underlying mechanisms of PACG is needed in this population.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2006.107573 
PMCID: PMC1955608
PMID: 17510475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Am J Ophthalmol. 2007 Jul;144(1):75-80. Epub 2007 May 11.

Clinical features associated with an Asp380His Myocilin mutation in a US family
with primary open-angle glaucoma.

Wirtz MK(1), Samples JR, Choi D, Gaudette ND.

Author information: 
(1)Casey Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Oregon Health and Science
University, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA. wirtzm@ohsu.edu

PURPOSE: To determine the glaucoma phenotype of an American pedigree with the
myocilin Asp380His.
DESIGN: An observational case series study.
METHODS: An observational case series study was used to examine a family in which
an Asp380His myocilin mutation was segregating. Thirteen family members were
examined and medical records were obtained on the remaining two individuals.
Blood samples were collected from all 15 participants following the tenets of the
Helsinki declaration under the auspices of the Oregon Health & Sciences
University Institutional Review Board and screened for myocilin variants by
denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (dHPLC). Any DNA samples with
dHPLC data different from the control sample were sequenced for base pair
analysis.
RESULTS: An Asp380His myocilin mutation was identified in eight members, seven of
whom had primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The eighth individual had high
intraocular pressures (IOPs). The disease presents in this family with extremely 
high IOPs requiring trabeculectomies to control the pressure. The age at
diagnosis ranged from 30 to 45.
CONCLUSIONS: This family with an Asp380His myocilin mutation presents with an
intermediate phenotype between juvenile- and adult-onset glaucoma. The Asp380
amino acid residue appears to be important in myocilin function based on the
finding that substitution of this amino acid with four different amino acids
(His, Ala, Asn, or Gly) all result in a similar presentation of POAG that is
intermediate between the more severe clinical presentations observed in
individuals with the Pro370Leu or Lys423Glu variant and the milder findings in
patients with the Gln368Stop mutation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.03.037 
PMCID: PMC1948101
PMID: 17499207  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2007;157(7-8):173-7.

[Myopia and glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Faschinger C(1), Mossböck G.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik der Medizinischen Universität Graz, Graz, Osterreich.
christoph.faschinger@meduni-graz.at

The question is whether there is an increased risk to develop glaucoma in
co-existing myopia. The different kinds of glaucoma dealing with this problem are
described. The highly myopic eye with increased axial length shows many
structural changes. Especially the changes of the optic nerve head in a highly
myopic eye make it very difficult to differentiate between a beginning glaucoma
and a normal structure or to define a progression of glaucomatous changes. The
visual field defects are often close to fixation and may reduce visual acuity and
therefore the quality of life of these usually younger patients. An increase of
the thickness of the lens induced by senile cataract, drugs or diabetes mellitus,
a forward shift of the lens or the iris-lens-diaphragm will lead to refractive
myopia and may provoke an angle closure glaucoma. Pigmentary glaucoma occurs in
younger patients in connection with low or medium myopia and more rapidly
destroys the optic nerve head due to higher intraocular pressure values in
comparison to the primary open-angle glaucoma. After refractive surgeries of
myopic eyes one has to expect different kinds of glaucoma (steroid induced,
pupillary block, angle closure). Due to the increased risk to develop glaucoma
patients especially with high myopia are advised to consult their ophthalmologist
on a regular basis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-007-0380-3 
PMID: 17492415  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


461. WMJ. 2007 Apr;106(2):85-9, 95.

Primary-open glaucoma and myopia: a narrative review.

Loyo-Berríos NI(1), Blustein JN.

Author information: 
(1)Food and Drug Administration, Rockville, MD, USA.

Comment in
    WMJ. 2007 May;106(3):109.

Refractive errors and primary open-angle glaucoma are common eye conditions in
the United States. The identification and quantification of risk factors for
primary open-angle glaucoma is critical to understanding and managing the disease
process from both individual and public health perspectives. This narrative
review was conducted to present the epidemiology of primary open-angle glaucoma
and to summarize epidemiologic findings on myopia as a risk factor. Epidemiologic
evidence suggests an increasing prevalence of primary open-angle glaucoma over
the last decade in the United States. It has been documented that primary
open-angle glaucoma prevalence increases with age, and that African Americans
tend to have the highest estimates. Epidemiologic data, however, are not as clear
with respect to gender differences. Other factors that have been identified are
increased intraocular pressure and the use of steroids. The evidence for
increased risk of primary open-angle glaucoma among myopies is stronger for
moderate and severe myopia and not as clear for mild myopia. The association
between primary open-angle glaucoma and its multiple risk factors is complex.


PMID: 17479825  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Ophthalmology. 2007 May;114(5):915-20.

Concordance of diurnal intraocular pressure between fellow eyes in primary
open-angle glaucoma.

Dinn RB(1), Zimmerman MB, Shuba LM, Doan AP, Maley MK, Greenlee EC, Alward WL,
Kwon YH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Iowa, Iowa
City, Iowa 52242, USA.

PURPOSE: To study the concordance of diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP) between
fellow eyes in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
PARTICIPANTS: Ninety-three POAG patients.
METHODS: Patients who met the definition of POAG and underwent diurnal curve
measurement were included. Subjects were excluded if there was a history of
surgery, trauma, ocular vascular disease, incomplete diurnal curve, or asymmetric
ocular medication use. Patients on symmetric ocular medication were included and 
analyzed separately. Goldmann applanation tonometry was performed at 10 am, 1 pm,
4 pm, 7 pm, 10 pm, and 7 am (the next day). The following statistical analyses
were performed: (1) average Pearson correlation coefficient (r) from individual
correlations of right and left eye IOP over the 6 time points for each subject;
(2) linear mixed model analysis for repeated measures, with eye (right and left) 
and time as the within-subject fixed effects, and (3) absolute difference in
change in IOP between fellow eyes over each time interval and probability that
the difference was within 2 or 3 mmHg.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The concordance of the IOP between fellow eyes as measured 
by absolute difference in change in IOP between fellow eyes and probability of
the difference being within 2 or 3 mmHg.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven patients were untreated and 56 were treated on symmetric
IOP-lowering medications. The diurnal curves of fellow eyes exhibited parallel
profiles according to the linear mixed model. The average difference in the
change of IOP between fellow eyes over given time intervals ranged from 1.6 to
2.0 mmHg. The estimated probability that the absolute change in IOP between
fellow eyes was within 2 mmHg was 68% to 90%, and within 3 mmHg was 78% to 95%
for all time intervals.
CONCLUSION: The diurnal variation of IOP in POAG is largely concordant between
fellow eyes. For any given time interval, the fellow eye IOPs may fluctuate
asymmetrically a minority of the time. Clinicians who utilize the uniocular trial
should be aware of the limit of the IOP concordance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.01.018 
PMID: 17467528  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2007 Dec;85(8):810-21. Epub 2007 Mar 22.

Cataract and glaucoma surgery in pseudoexfoliation syndrome: a review.

Drolsum L(1), Ringvold A, Nicolaissen B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centre for Eye Research, Ullevål University
Hospital, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. Liv.Drolsum@uus.no

Pseudoexfoliation syndrome is a risk factor in cataract surgery because of the
increased weakness of zonular apparatus and reduced pupillary dilatation. The
surgical outcome of using phacoemulsification in the central zone, inducing
minimal stress on the zonules, inserting a capsular tension ring in selected
cases, and stretching the pupil mechanically in eyes with miotic pupils, may turn
out to be uneventful in most cases. Postoperative fibrosis with subsequent
shrinkage of the capsule is increased in these eyes, and these centripetal forces
will further loosen the zonular fibres. Late in-the-bag intraocular lens
dislocation is therefore anticipated to become a growing problem in the future.
Despite the dysfunctioning of the blood-aqueous barrier in eyes with
pseudoexfoliation syndrome, the frequency of postoperative inflammatory reaction 
is low due to the improvements made in surgical technique and equipment in recent
years. Glaucoma frequently occurs in eyes with pseudoexfoliation syndrome.
Compared with primary open-angle glaucoma, optic damage is more pronounced in
these eyes at the time of diagnosis and response to medical therapy is poorer.
Although responses to argon laser therapy and filtering surgery are roughly
similar between the two types of glaucoma, there are indications that primary
laser trabeculoplasty has a higher success rate in pseudoexfoliation glaucoma
than in primary open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.2007.00903.x 
PMID: 17376188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Can J Ophthalmol. 2007 Feb;42(1):60-5.

A Canadian glaucoma strategy.

LeBlanc RP(1); Canadian Glaucoma Strategy Forum.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Dalhousie University Eye Care
Center, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. r.leblanc@dal.ca

BACKGROUND: To develop Canadian guidelines for the management of primary
open-angle glaucoma and provide a quick and practical reference for physicians in
the office setting.
METHODS: A Canadian Glaucoma Strategy began with a review of the literature and
existing guidelines, as well as consultation with glaucoma specialists and
general ophthalmologists across Canada. The resulting information was assessed by
a panel of glaucoma experts and general ophthalmologists at the Canadian Glaucoma
Strategy Forum to distill what was learned and construct the algorithms of care.
RESULTS: A Canadian Glaucoma Strategy was developed in 4 algorithms. First,
patients are diagnosed on the basis of risk assessment and clinical findings. The
staging algorithm is designed to determine the disease stage, while the treatment
and follow-up algorithms focus on control of intraocular pressure and continuing 
patient follow-up.
INTERPRETATION: A Canadian Glaucoma Strategy is a practical series of algorithms 
that can be at hand in the office setting, providing the general ophthalmologist 
with an up-to-date guide for the management of patients with glaucoma concerns.

DOI: 10.3129/can j ophthalmol.06-100 
PMID: 17361243  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Clin Ophthalmol. 2007 Mar;1(1):11-24.

Travoprost in the management of open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Denis P(1), Covert D, Realini A.

Author information: 
(1)Service d’ Ophtalmologie, Pavillon C, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, 5, place d’
Arsonval, 69437 LYON cédex 03, France. philippe.denis@chu-lyon.fr

Travoprost is a member of the prostaglandin analogue class of intraocular
pressure (IOP)-lowering drugs used to treat ocular hypertension and glaucoma.
Like other prostaglandin analogues, travoprost lowers IOP by enhancing the egress
of aqueous humor through both the uveoscleral and trabecular outflow channels.
This review summarizes the published data regarding the safety and efficacy of
travoprost. Travoprost provides statistically significant and clinically relevant
reductions in mean IOP, of the order of 6.5-9.0 mmHg in most studies. In
addition, travoprost provides consistent diurnal IOP control, with statistically 
significant IOP reductions persisting up to 84 hours post-dose. Travoprost has a 
highly favorable safety profile; most adverse events are cosmetic in nature (such
as iris hyperpigmentation and eyelash growth), although more serious adverse
events (such as iritis and macular edema) have been associated with travoprost
and the other prostaglandin drugs. In some markets, travoprost is available in a 
fixed combination with timolol; clinical studies have demonstrated that the fixed
combination - dosed once daily - lowers IOP by 7-11.5 mmHg. In conclusion,
travoprost provides safe and effective reduction of IOP, with convenient
once-daily dosing, supporting its role as primary monotherapy.


PMCID: PMC2699992
PMID: 19668462  [PubMed]


466. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2007 Mar;18(2):140-5.

Mechanisms of action and efficacy of argon laser trabeculoplasty and selective
laser trabeculoplasty.

Stein JD(1), Challa P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Since the 1980s, laser trabeculoplasty has served as an
effective way to lower intraocular pressure in patients with primary or secondary
open angle glaucomas, both as an initial therapy or in conjunction with
hypotensive medications. This manuscript will describe the proposed mechanisms of
action of argon laser trabeculoplasty and selective laser trabeculoplasty, as
well as review current studies of the therapeutic effect of these interventions.
RECENT FINDINGS: The exact mechanisms by which argon laser and selective laser
trabeculoplasty lower intraocular pressure are not known. There are several
theories, however, and we discuss the three most common ones: the mechanical
theory, the cellular (biologic) theory, and the cell division theory. Since both 
lasers are applied to the same tissue and produce similar results, they most
likely produce their effects in comparable ways. We also describe the results of 
several studies comparing these devices. Most show them to be equally effective
at lowering intraocular pressure; however, there are a few circumstances when
selective laser trabeculoplasty may be a better option than argon laser
trabeculoplasty.
SUMMARY: Argon laser and selective laser trabeculoplasty are safe and effective
procedures for lowering intraocular pressure. The results of ongoing clinical
trials will help further define their role in the management of patients with
open angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e328086aebf 
PMID: 17301616  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Refract Surg. 2007 Jan;23(1):85-8.

How might corneal elasticity help us understand diabetes and intraocular
pressure?

Krueger RR(1), Ramos-Esteban JC.

Author information: 
(1)Cole Eye Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH 44195,
USA. krueger@ccf.org

PURPOSE: To determine how changes in corneal elasticity/stiffness might influence
intraocular pressure (IOP) readings in diabetic patients.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was performed to understand the
conflicting relationship between diabetes, elevated IOP, and glaucoma
progression.
RESULTS: Diabetic patients have been found to have statistically significant
higher IOP readings in some population-based studies compared to non-diabetics.
Insulin resistance states, hyperglycemia and glycosylated hemoglobin have been
correlated with higher IOP (1 mmHg) measurements in diabetic patients. In the
Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study (OHTS), a self reported history of diabetes
was found to be protective against the progression of primary open-angle
glaucoma. Small differences in IOP measurements in diabetic patients may be due
to corneal stiffening, as demonstrated by the protective effect of
glucose-mediated collagen cross-linking against the manifestation and
keratometric progression of keratoconus. Different collagen cross-linking agents 
may induce different degrees of corneal stiffening, which can result in
differences in measured IOP.
CONCLUSIONS: Glucose-mediated corneal stiffening due to collagen cross-linking
might be responsible for IOP overestimation in diabetic patients. Corneal
stiffening might explain why diabetic eyes tend to have higher IOP readings in
large population-based studies and why those with ocular hypertension have a
reduced risk for glaucoma progression.


PMID: 17269248  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Ophthalmologe. 2007 Feb;104(2):167-78; quiz 179.

[Primary open angle glaucoma. Morphological bases for the understanding of the
pathogenesis and effects of antiglaucomatic substances].

[Article in German]

Lütjen-Drecoll E(1), Kruse FE.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie, Lehrstuhl II, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, 91054,
Erlangen, Germany. anat2.gl@anatomie2.med.uni-erlangen.de

The pathogenesis of glaucomatic illnesses is poorly understood. An increase in
ocular pressure can be caused by an increase in the secretion of aqueous humour
or a reduction in its outflow. In the elderly, outflow is reduced while at the
same time less aqueous humour is produced. This balance is easily disturbed, so
that age represents a risk factor for glaucoma in addition to increased ocular
pressure. Therapeutic possibilities involve, on the one hand, reducing the
secretion of aqueous humour, for example using, beta blockers, carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors and clonidine. On the other hand, aqueous humour outflow can also be
influenced by drugs. Conventional outflow is increased by the administration of
miotics. The uveoscleral outflow can be increased by prostaglandin derivates.
Drugs which only influence trabecular outflow are not yet available. Future
therapeutic possibilities involve new aspects of the pathophysiology, e.c. the
use of growth factors, free radical scavenging enzymes and choroidal blood flow.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-007-1481-5 
PMID: 17242882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Exp Eye Res. 2007 Mar;84(3):389-99. Epub 2006 Dec 29.

Glaucomatous outflow pathway and oxidative stress.

Saccà SC(1), Izzotti A, Rossi P, Traverso C.

Author information: 
(1)San Martino Hospital, Section of Ophthalmology, Largo Rosanna Benzi 1, 16132
Genova, Italy. sergio.sacca@hsanmartino.it

Oxidative free radicals and reactive oxygen species (ROS) are able to affect the 
cellularity of the human trabecular meshwork (HTM). These findings suggest that
intraocular pressure increase, which characterises most glaucomas, is related to 
oxidative degenerative processes affecting the HTM and specifically its
endothelial cells. Much evidence indicates that in this region ROS play a
fundamental pathogenic role by reducing local antioxidant activities, inducing
outflow resistance and exacerbating the activities of superoxide dismutase and
glutathione peroxidase in glaucomatous eyes. Furthermore, hydrogen peroxide
induces rearrangement of HTM cells and compromises their integrity. Glaucomatous 
subjects might have a genetic predisposition rendering them more susceptible to
ROS-induced damage. A fairly significant correlation between oxidative DNA damage
in the HTM and intraocular pressure increase and visual field defects in
glaucomatous patients has been demonstrated. Thus, oxidative stress may play a
significant role during glaucoma course initially damaging HTM cells, then
contributing to the alteration of the homeostasis between NO and endothelins, and
finally through its possible involvement in ganglional cell death. On the whole, 
these findings support the hypothesis that oxidative damage is an important step 
in the pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma, and might be a relevant
target for both prevention and therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2006.10.008 
PMID: 17196589  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Am J Ophthalmol. 2007 Jan;143(1):159-61. Epub 2006 Aug 31.

Central corneal thickness and visual field loss in fellow eyes of patients with
open-angle glaucoma.

Rogers DL(1), Cantor RN, Catoira Y, Cantor LB, WuDunn D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 702 Rotary
Circle, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the relationship of central corneal thickness (CCT) and
visual field loss between fellow eyes in primary open-angle glaucoma.
DESIGN: Retrospective, observational case series.
METHODS: Records review of glaucoma patients seen at local Veterans
Administration eye clinic. Those with CCT measurements performed within one month
of visual field testing were included. Patients were excluded with vision below
20/40 or disease that would affect visual fields. Intrasubject (between fellow
eyes) differences in CCT, mean deviation (MD), and pattern standard deviation
(PSD) were calculated by subtracting left eye value from right eye value.
RESULTS: Of the 100 subjects (94 males), the Spearman correlation coefficient
between intrasubject differences in CCT vs intrasubject differences in MD was
0.36 (P = .0003). The Spearman correlation for differences in CCT vs differences 
in PSD was -0.31 (P = .0019).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that worse visual field changes tend to occur in 
the eye with the thinner cornea.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2006.07.047 
PMID: 17188056  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Drugs Aging. 2006;23(12):977-95.

Topical dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution: a review of its use in
the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Frampton JE(1), Perry CM.

Author information: 
(1)Wolters Kluwer Health/Adis, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Topically administered dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5% (dorzolamide/timolol
ophthalmic solution; Cosopt) is a fixed combination of two ocular hypotensive
drugs (the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor dorzolamide and the beta-adrenoceptor
antagonist timolol) that have an additive effect on lowering intraocular pressure
(IOP) when administered together. This product is indicated for the treatment of 
elevated IOP in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension (OH) who
are insufficiently responsive to topical beta-adrenoceptor antagonist
monotherapy. As such, it can be considered for use in individuals who, as a
consequence of failing to achieve target IOP with beta-adrenoceptor antagonist
monotherapy, require the addition or substitution of another class of topical
antiglaucoma medication. Clinical trials have demonstrated that
dorzolamide/timolol (1 drop per eye twice daily) is an effective and generally
well tolerated fixed combination for lowering IOP in patients with open angle
glaucoma or OH, including individuals uncontrolled on beta-adrenoceptor
antagonist monotherapy. Compared with concomitant therapy with the individual
components, the primary advantage of fixed combination dorzolamide/timolol is
convenience.


PMID: 17154662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2007 Jan;26(1):38-56. Epub 2006 Nov 27.

Retinotopic organization of primary visual cortex in glaucoma: Comparing fMRI
measurements of cortical function with visual field loss.

Duncan RO(1), Sample PA, Weinreb RN, Bowd C, Zangwill LM.

Author information: 
(1)Hamilton Glaucoma Center, Department of Ophthalmology, University of
California, San Diego, CA 92093-0946, USA. rduncan@eyecenter.ucsd.edu

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a progressive optic neuropathy
characterized by retinal ganglion cell loss. Experimental primate glaucoma
indicates neuronal degeneration of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and
activity changes in the visual cortex (V1). Neuronal degeneration has also been
shown in a post-mortem human study of the optic nerve, LGN and visual cortex.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), a non-invasive means of inferring
function-specific neuronal activity, provides an opportunity to evaluate
glaucomatous changes in neuronal activity throughout the visual pathway in vivo. 
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that the relationship between visual 
field loss in human POAG and the functional organization of V1 can be measured
using novel fMRI analysis methods. Visual field defects were measured using
standard automated perimetry (SAP). A retinotopic map of visual space was
obtained for V1, and the retinotopy data was fit with a template. The template
was used to project regions within the visual field onto a flattened
representation of V1. Viewing through the glaucomatous vs. fellow eye was
compared by alternately presenting each eye with a scotoma-mapping stimulus. The 
resulting blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) fMRI response was compared to
interocular differences in thresholds for corresponding regions of the visual
field. The spatial pattern of activity observed in the flattened representation
agreed with the pattern of visual field loss. Furthermore, the amplitude of the
BOLD response was correlated on a pointwise basis with the difference in
sensitivity thresholds between the glaucomatous and fellow eyes (r = 0.53, p <
0.0001). The BOLD signal in human V1 is altered for POAG patients in a manner
consistent with the loss of visual function. FMRI of visual brain areas is a
potential means for quantifying glaucomatous changes in neuronal activity. This
should enhance our understanding of glaucoma, and could lead to new diagnostic
techniques and therapies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2006.10.001 
PMCID: PMC1940234
PMID: 17126063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2006 Oct 18;(4):CD006129.

Screening for prevention of optic nerve damage due to chronic open angle
glaucoma.

Hatt S(1), Wormald R, Burr J.

Author information: 
(1)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, International Centre for Eye
Health, Keppel Street, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Open angle glaucoma (OAG) is a primary, progressive optic neuropathy;
the onset is without symptoms and progression occurs silently until the advanced 
stages of the disease, when it affects central vision. The blindness caused by
OAG is irreversible. It has often been assumed to be a condition that fulfils the
criteria for population screening, although this has not been supported by other 
in-depth non-systematic reviews. The focus of this review was to examine the
evidence for the effectiveness of screening for OAG.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the impact of screening for OAG compared with
opportunistic case findings or current referral practices on the prevalence of
and the degree of optic nerve damage due to OAG in screened and unscreened
populations.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We included any randomised controlled trial (RCT) evaluating
population-based screening programmes for OAG with a minimum one year follow up. 
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) on The
Cochrane Library (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register)
(Issue 1, 2006), MEDLINE (1950 to February 2006) and EMBASE (1988 to February
2006). We also searched the National Research Register (Issue 1, 2006) and Zetoc 
for grey literature (29 June 2006). There were no language or date restrictions
in the electronic searches.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We planned to include RCTs, including cluster RCTs.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed the study
abstracts identified by the electronic searches. We did not find any trials that 
met the inclusion criteria.
MAIN RESULTS: As no trials were identified, no formal analysis was performed.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of current evidence, population-based
screening for chronic OAG cannot be recommended, although much can be done to
improve awareness and encourage at risk individuals to seek testing. In wealthy
countries with equitable access to high quality eye care and health education,
blindness from chronic OAG should become increasingly rare; much greater
challenges face poor and emerging economies and countries where there are
substantial health and wealth inequalities. Effectiveness of screening for OAG
can be established only by high quality RCTs.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006129.pub2 
PMID: 17054274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Klin Oczna. 2006;108(4-6):228-31.

[The place of filtration surgery in the treatment of adult onsets of primary
glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Nizankowska MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki, Akademii Medycznej we Wrocławiu.

The author presents contemporary opinion on the place of filtration surgery in
the treatment of adult onsets of primary glaucoma. Increasing age and greater IOP
fluctuation increase the odds of VF progression after surgical intervention.
Retinal ganglion cell function, optic disc morphology as well as VF parameters,
can be at least partially restored after surgical IOP reduction in early
glaucoma. It is the most important, to choose the critical time for surgical
intervention in the aim to achieve reversal of field loss.


PMID: 17020002  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2006 Oct;47(10):4254-61.

Variations in primary open-angle glaucoma prevalence by age, gender, and race: a 
Bayesian meta-analysis.

Rudnicka AR(1), Mt-Isa S, Owen CG, Cook DG, Ashby D.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Community Health Sciences, St. George's, University of London, UK.
arudnicka@sgul.ac.uk

PURPOSE: To quantify the variation in primary open-angle glaucoma (OAG)
prevalence with age, gender, race, year of publication, and survey methodology.
METHODS: Medline, EMBASE, and PubMed were searched for studies of OAG prevalence.
Studies with defined population samplings were sought. Forty-six published
observational studies of OAG prevalence (103,567 participants with 2509 cases of 
OAG) were identified for inclusion in the systematic review and meta-analysis.
Data on the number of people and the number of cases of OAG by age, race, and
gender were sought for each study. Additional information was obtained regarding 
whether the definition of glaucoma relied on raised intraocular pressure (IOP)
and whether visual field examination was performed routinely on all individuals. 
Bayesian meta-analysis was used to model the associations between the log odds of
OAG and age, race, gender, year of publication, method of visual field testing,
and effect of reliance on IOP in the definition of OAG.
RESULTS: Black populations had the highest OAG prevalence at all ages, but the
proportional increase in prevalence of OAG with age was highest in white
populations. The odds ratio per decade increase in age was 2.05 in white
populations (95% credible interval, 1.91 to 2.18), 1.61 (95% credible interval,
1.53 to 1.70) in black populations, and 1.57 (95% credible interval, 1.46 to
1.68) in Asian populations. The average estimated prevalence in those older than 
70 years of age was 6% in white populations, 16% in black populations, and 3% in 
Asian populations. After adjusting for age, race, year of publication, and survey
methods, men were 1.37 (95% credible interval, 1.22 to 1.53) times more likely
than women to have OAG. The prevalence of OAG was one third lower in studies in
which routine visual fields were not assessed and that used an IOP criterion in
the definition of glaucoma; this effect was reduced to the null after adjustment 
for age, racial group, and year of publication.
CONCLUSIONS: Although black populations had the highest prevalence of OAG at all 
ages, white populations showed the steepest increase in OAG prevalence with age. 
Men were more likely than women to have OAG.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.06-0299 
PMID: 17003413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Ophthalmology. 2006 Dec;113(12):2137-43. Epub 2006 Sep 25.

Detection and prognostic significance of optic disc hemorrhages during the Ocular
Hypertension Treatment Study.

Budenz DL(1), Anderson DR, Feuer WJ, Beiser JA, Schiffman J, Parrish RK 2nd,
Piltz-Seymour JR, Gordon MO, Kass MA; Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Miami 
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida 33136, USA. dbudenz@med.miami.edu

PURPOSE: To compare the rates of detection of optic disc hemorrhages by clinical 
examination and by review of optic disc photographs at the Optic Disc Reading
Center (ODRC), to assess the incidence of and the predictive factors for disc
hemorrhages in the annual disc photographs of the Ocular Hypertension Treatment
Study (OHTS), and to determine whether optic disc hemorrhages predict the
development of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in the OHTS.
DESIGN: Cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: Three thousand two hundred thirty-six eyes of 1618 participants.
METHODS: Both eyes of participants were examined for optic disc hemorrhages every
6 months by clinical examination, with dilated fundus examinations every 12
months, and by annual review of stereoscopic disc photographs at the ODRC.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence of optic disc hemorrhages and POAG end points.
RESULTS: Median follow-up was 96.3 months. Stereophotography-confirmed
glaucomatous optic disc hemorrhages were detected in 128 eyes of 123 participants
before the POAG end point. Twenty-one cases (16%) were detected by both clinical 
examination and review of photographs, and 107 cases (84%) were detected only by 
review of photographs (P<0.0001). Baseline factors associated with disc
hemorrhages were older age, thinner corneas, larger vertical cup-to-disc ratio,
larger pattern standard deviation index on perimetry, family history of glaucoma,
and smoking status. The occurrence of a disc hemorrhage increased the risk of
developing POAG 6-fold in a univariate analysis (P<0.001; 95% confidence
interval, 3.6-10.1) and 3.7-fold in a multivariate analysis that included
baseline factors predictive of POAG (P<0.001; 95% confidence interval, 2.1-6.6). 
The 96-month cumulative incidence of POAG in the eyes without optic disc
hemorrhage was 5.2%, compared with 13.6% in the eyes with optic disc hemorrhage. 
In eyes with a disc hemorrhage in which a POAG end point developed, the median
time between the 2 events was 13 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Review of stereophotographs was more sensitive at detecting optic
disc hemorrhage than clinical examination. The occurrence of an optic disc
hemorrhage was associated with an increased risk of developing a POAG end point
in participants in the OHTS. However, most eyes (86.7%) in which a disc
hemorrhage developed have not experienced a POAG end point to date.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.06.022 
PMCID: PMC1995568
PMID: 16996592  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


477. J Glaucoma. 2006 Oct;15(5):419-25.

Costs and utilization of end-stage glaucoma patients receiving visual
rehabilitation care: a US multisite retrospective study.

Gieser DK(1), Tracy Williams R, O'Connell W, Pasquale LR, Rosenthal BP, Walt JG, 
Katz LM, Siegartel LR, Wang L, Rosenblatt LC, Stern LS, Doyle JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Wheaton Eye Clinic, Wheaton, IL, USA.

PURPOSE: Glaucoma is a prevalent ophthalmologic disease and leading cause of
blindness. A retrospective analysis was conducted to evaluate resources and costs
for end-stage glaucoma patients receiving visual rehabilitation care (VRC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A chart review was conducted in 3 United States VRC
centers. Charts of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma as the primary cause
of vision loss (1998 to 2003) were selected, yielding 81 records. Data were
collected from patient-level billing and reimbursement records
(ophthalmologist/optometrist visits, glaucoma medications, procedures, and
specialized low-vision and glaucoma-related services). Visual rehabilitation
services included utilization of low-vision devices, assessment of daily
functioning, orientation and mobility training, and patient counseling.
RESULTS: Mean age at baseline was 72.7 years [standard deviation (SD)=17.2,
range: 29 to 95]. Of those with known sex (n=77), 55.8% were women. Medicare was 
the payer type for most patients (59.3%), whereas 20% had Medicaid. Mean number
of visits was 7.1 (SD=6.1) in year 1 and 3.7 (SD=4.2) in year 2, for an annual
mean of 5.4 (SD=5.0) visits overall. Total mean cost per patient in year 1 was
greater than year 2 [$2170 (SD=$2252) vs. $1202 (SD=$1080), respectively]; of the
total 2-year costs, 15% were VRC, 37% ophthalmology care, and 48% pharmacy.
Analysis of nonpharmacy costs revealed that VRC accounted for 28% and
ophthalmology for 72%.
CONCLUSIONS: End-stage glaucoma is associated with appreciable resource
utilization and costs, because of both vision rehabilitation and ophthalmology
care. Advanced primary open-angle glaucoma has a substantial cost-of-illness,
warranting improved management in early stages of disease.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000212250.95078.6f 
PMID: 16988605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Dec;90(12):1454-7. Epub 2006 Aug 2.

The role of scanning laser polarimetry using the GDx variable corneal compensator
in the management of glaucoma suspects.

Shaikh A(1), Salmon JF.

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Eye Hospital, Oxford Radcliffe Hospitals NHS, Oxford, UK.

AIM: To determine the role of scanning laser polarimetry using the GDx variable
corneal compensator (VCC) in the management of glaucoma suspects.
METHODS: Over a 12-month period, 43 of 447 (9.6%) patients referred to a glaucoma
screening clinic were classified as "glaucoma suspects" when it was not possible 
to categorise the optic disc appearance and visual fields as definitely
glaucomatous or definitely normal. Of these patients, 39 underwent a full
ophthalmic review, including assessment of the visual fields and analysis of the 
retinal nerve fibre layer with the GDx VCC.
RESULTS: After the review, 17 of 39 (43.6%) patients were discharged because of
normal GDx VCC results. The remaining 22 of 39 (56.4%) were considered to be at
risk of developing progressive glaucoma, and further follow-up in the hospital
eye service was recommended. 3 (7.7%) patients received treatment. Of the 22
patients, 12 were considered to have pre-perimetric normal tension glaucoma, 7
normal tension glaucoma and 1 primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). In 19 of these 
patients, abnormal GDx VCC results were found, particularly inter-eye asymmetry
in the nerve fibre layer thickness. However, in 2 of 39 (5.1%) patients the GDx
VCC was normal, despite the presence of a neuroretinal rim defect in the optic
disc with corresponding visual field loss, and in 1 patient with POAG.
CONCLUSIONS: Scanning laser polarimetry using the GDx VCC is an important tool in
defining the management strategies of glaucoma suspects. In screening for
glaucoma, however, GDx VCC results should not be used in isolation, but in
conjunction with conventional methods of optic disc and visual field assessment.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2006.099143 
PMCID: PMC1857534
PMID: 16885189  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Compr Ophthalmol Update. 2006 May-Jun;7(3):131-41.

Current concepts in the pathogenesis and management of exfoliation syndrome and
exfoliative glaucoma.

Konstas AG(1), Tsironi S, Ritch R.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Unit, A University Department of Ophthalmology, AHEPA Hospital, 1
Kyriakidi Str., Thessaloniki 546 36, Greece. konstas@med.auth.gr

Comment in
    Compr Ophthalmol Update. 2006 May-Jun;7(3):143-4.

Exfoliative glaucoma is a common, sight-threatening disease that develops as a
consequence of exfoliation syndrome. There are important differences in the
clinical appearance, course, and prognosis of exfoliative glaucoma versus primary
open-angle glaucoma. At the clinical, biochemical, and cellular levels,
exfoliative glaucoma is a distinct entity, with an intriguing mechanism of
development and numerous systemic manifestations that require further
elucidation. The subtlety of clinical signs results in the diagnosis of
exfoliative glaucoma often being overlooked and resulting in less-than-ideal
management. We provide an overview of recent studies investigating the medical,
laser, and surgical therapy of exfoliative glaucoma, with a focus on innovative
approaches that may slow the progression of, or even prevent, the development of 
exfoliation syndrome and exfoliative glaucoma.


PMID: 16882401  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2006 Aug;13(4):291-8.

Causal models in primary open angle glaucoma.

Bahrami H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins Schools of Medicine and Public
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA. hbahrami@jhsph.edu

OBJECTIVES: To apply three of the most common epidemiologic causal models for
glaucoma and explain the issues pertaining to the use of them.
METHODS: Three causal models will be explained: (1) counterfactual model, (2)
graphical model, and (3) sufficient-component causal model. Using literature
search and experts' opinions these models will be applied in glaucoma.
RESULTS: Introducing the counterfactual model, as one of the most important
quantitative causal models and formalizes the concepts of cause and effect, this 
article emphasizes the limitations with the use of this model for glaucoma.
Explaining causal diagram, as a useful qualitative tool that provides a lucid
depiction of the assumptions concerning a causal pathway, this article provides a
working causal diagram for glaucoma based on the evidence in the literature and
experts' comments. In addition, the limitations in developing appropriate causal 
diagrams for glaucoma are discussed. Finally, the sufficient-component causal
models and their importance in portraying the mechanics of causal interactions
will be discussed.
CONCLUSION: Paucity of evidence is the main issue with the use of causal models
for glaucoma. This article calls for convergent review of different theories and 
different pieces of evidence that can enable us to apply different causal models 
for glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1080/09286580600803677 
PMID: 16877289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2006 Aug;13(4):283-9.

Causal inference in primary open angle glaucoma: specific discussion on
intraocular pressure.

Bahrami H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins Schools of Medicine and Public
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA. hbahrami@jhsph.edu

OBJECTIVES: As the first part of a comprehensive review of the concept of causal 
inference in epidemiology, this article explains how causal inference is
established in epidemiology and applies these methods to evaluate the evidence in
favor or against the causal association between intraocular pressure (IOP) and
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) as an example.
METHODS: After an introduction to causal inference in epidemiology and general
guidelines for assessment of the causal relationship, the association between IOP
and POAG will be evaluated in the context of these guidelines and the categories 
suggested by the Surgeon General's report.
RESULTS: The literature indicates a consistent strong association between IOP and
POAG and there is no strong evidence against temporal precedence. The association
is biologically plausible, coherent with scientific principles, and has
noticeable biological gradient. However, it seems that IOP is not specific for
POAG and vice versa.
CONCLUSION: Despite the absence of specificity, we conclude that the evidence is 
sufficient to infer a causal relationship between IOP and POAG. In sum, based on 
the literature and our current knowledge of glaucoma, currently most competing
causes are not strong enough to confront the causal role of IOP.

DOI: 10.1080/09286580600681339 
PMID: 16877288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2006 Jul;34(5):472-84.

Complex genetics of complex traits: the case of primary open-angle glaucoma.

Hewitt AW(1), Craig JE, Mackey DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia,
Australia.

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2006 Jul;34(5):395-6.

Glaucoma, which is a complex heterogeneous disease, presents an ideal case for
genetic investigation. Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is the commonest
subtype and will be the focus of this review. When detected early, POAG is
amenable to therapeutic intervention. Unfortunately, current population-based
clinical screening lacks efficacy. If individuals with a genetic predisposition
for developing POAG can be identified, then efficient and cost-effective
population-based screening programs could be designed. Although considerable
inroads have been made in understanding the natural history of POAG caused by
mutations in the myocilin and optineurin genes, other POAG genes accounting for
most cases remain to be identified. This review explores the genetic mechanisms
that have been unequivocally linked to the glaucomatous process and then
discusses potential avenues for future breakthroughs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2006.01268.x 
PMID: 16872346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Optom Vis Sci. 2006 Jul;83(7):406-14.

Vasospasm in glaucoma: clinical and laboratory aspects.

Delaney Y(1), Walshe TE, O'Brien C.

Author information: 
(1)Mater Misericordiae Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

During the last decade, the presumed etiology of glaucoma has moved from a pure
pressure concept to a combined mechanical and vascular theory. Evidence of a
localized vascular insufficiency leading to perfusion deficits of ocular
structures, including the optic nerve head, the retina, the choroid, and the
retrobulbar vessels, is now clear. This article evaluates the role of vasospasm
as the primary cause of such a vascular failure. The role of both ocular and
systemic vasospasms and their clinical correlations are discussed. At a cellular 
level, the function of the modulating role of the vascular endothelium is
reviewed. Evidence of abnormalities of the vascular endothelium and its
vasoactive peptides as a conduit for vasospasm is mounting. Herein lies exciting 
prospects for potential pharmacologic targets in future glaucoma management.

DOI: 10.1097/01.opx.0000225877.13217.01 
PMID: 16840865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Drug News Perspect. 2006 Apr;19(3):151-8.

Trabecular meshwork as a new target for the treatment of glaucoma.

Ferrer E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurophysiology, Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute
of Biomedical Investigations August Pi i Sunyer, School of Medicine, University
of Barcelona, Spain. ferrer.elisa@gmail.com

Glaucoma, a group of optic neuropathies, is one of the leading causes of
irreversible blindness in the world. It is characterized by degeneration of the
optic nerve and progressive visual field loss, often associated with elevated
intraocular pressure (IOP). In primary open-angle glaucoma, the most common form 
of the disease, IOP occurs as a result of abnormally increased resistance to
drainage of aqueous humor through the conventional outflow system, which
comprises the trabecular meshwork and the Schlemm's canal. The pharmacological
treatment of glaucoma has been classically aimed at lowering elevated IOP, either
decreasing the production of aqueous humor or improving its outflow. Increasing
knowledge of trabecular meshwork physiology shows that this tissue has unique
morphologic and functional properties involved in the regulation of aqueous humor
outflow. Although trabecular meshwork physiology is yet to be fully revealed, ion
channels involved in cell contractility or cell volume regulation, or those
capable of responding to high pressure, have been described and may be considered
promising pharmacological targets for the treatment of glaucoma. The cytoskeleton
architecture of the trabecular meshwork cell is thought to be an important
regulator of aqueous humor outflow. Gene technology directed at discovering genes
linked to the development of glaucoma or to those upregulated in response to
elevated IOP is challenging research but provides an insight into future gene
therapy. New tools to study trabecular meshwork physiology have recently been
developed, including the use of lentivirus for gene delivery or fusion proteins
with a protein transduction domain. These vectors are targeted specifically to
the trabecular meshwork and are powerful techniques with broad applications for
future gene therapy or as new forms of drug delivery.

Copyright 2006 Prous Science. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1358/dnp.2006.19.3.985929 
PMID: 16804567  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


485. J Glaucoma. 2006 Jun;15(3):271-3.

Glaucoma in oman: a review.

Khandekarl R(1), Zutshi R.

Author information: 
(1)Eye & Ear Health Care, Ministry of Health, Oman. raishpp@omantel.net.om

PURPOSE: Glaucoma is one of the priority eye diseases in Oman in its VISION 2020 
Plan. A review of available data is presented on the basis of situation analysis 
carried out in 2002.
METHODS: The General demography, morbidity and management of eye diseases
reported by different eye institutions. Predefined parameters and definitions
were used to calculate incidence and coverage of glaucoma.
RESULTS: The rate of glaucoma cases reported by ophthalmologists was 1.14/1000.
11.5% of estimated blindness in Oman in 1997 was due to glaucoma. Primary Open
angle glaucoma constituted 63.5% of the total glaucoma cases. In spite of free
and easy access to the eye treatment, coverage of glaucoma surgery was 25% of the
reported cases. Evidence based information on glaucoma in the community is needed
in Oman. The health facilities for eye care of glaucoma cases are available in
different health regions of Oman.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma should be addressed through a program approach both to
reduce/delay visual disabilities and improve quality of life of glaucoma
patients.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000212206.79899.cc 
PMID: 16778653  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


486. J Glaucoma. 2006 Jun;15(3):195-9.

Long-term follow-up of initial trabeculectomy with mitomycin C for primary
open-angle glaucoma in Japanese patients.

Shigeeda T(1), Tomidokoro A, Chen YN, Shirato S, Araie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine, 
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine the long-term intraocular pressure (IOP) control and
postoperative complications after initial trabeculectomy with use of mitomycin C 
(MMC) in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted of a consecutive
series of 123 eyes (87 patients) with POAG who underwent initial trabeculectomy
with MMC and had at least 4 years of follow-up. All patients underwent standard
trabeculectomy with 0.04% MMC applied intraoperatively for 3 minutes. The
long-term outcomes (IOP control and bleb leak, long-standing hypotony,
bleb-related infections) were analyzed with the Kaplan-Meier life-table method on
the basis of three definitions of successful IOP control (defined as IOP <18 mmHg
(definition 1), IOP <16 mmHg (definition 2), and IOP decrease of by > or =30% and
<21 mmHg (definition 3)).
RESULTS: The mean follow-up time was 6.8+/-1.4 (mean+/-SD) years. The cumulative 
survival rates were 67.0+/-4.6%, 44.5+/-5.4%, and 74.1+/-4.2%, respectively,
based on definitions 1, 2, and 3, 8 years postoperatively by life-table analysis.
At 8 years, bleb leak occurred in 7.9+/-2.6% of eyes, long-standing hypotony in
8.3+/-2.5%, and bleb-related infections in 5.9+/-2.4%.
CONCLUSION: Long-term outcome after initial trabeculectomy with MMC in Japanese
POAG patients is comparable with that reported in other populations and with that
after trabeculectomy with 5-fluorouracil.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ijg.0000212202.57029.45 
PMID: 16778640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Oftalmologia. 2006;50(1):46-56.

[Does the ocular hypertension need treatment].

[Article in Romanian]

Călugăru M, Călugăru D.

The authors review the risk factors that influence conversion of ocular
hypertension into primary open-angle glaucoma. They are represented mainly by
advanced age and higher intraocular pressure, central corneal thickness as well
as greater values of vertical and horizontal cup/disc ratios. Therapy must be
immediately performed if there is a moderate or high conversion risk (e.g.
elderly age, greater intraocular pressure, central corneal thinnness, greater
cup/disc ratio) (10% of cases). Should these factors be missing (more than 90% of
the patients) then the treatment is not necessary, the only thing that has to be 
done is thorough monitoring of these patients.


PMID: 16773938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Ophthalmology. 2006 Jul;113(7):1081-6. Epub 2006 Jun 6.

Prospective study of type 2 diabetes mellitus and risk of primary open-angle
glaucoma in women.

Pasquale LR(1), Kang JH, Manson JE, Willett WC, Rosner BA, Hankinson SE.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA. Louis_Pasquale@meei.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: To study the relation between type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and
incident primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in women.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: Seventy-six thousand three hundred eighteen women enrolled in the
Nurses' Health Study (NHS).
METHODS: Women enrolled in the NHS from 1980 to 2000 were observed. Eligible
participants were at least 40 years old, did not have POAG at baseline, and
reported receiving eye examinations during follow-up. Potential confounders were 
assessed on biennial questionnaires, and a diagnosis of T2DM was confirmed on a
validated supplemental questionnaire. During follow-up, 429 self-reported POAG
cases confirmed by medical chart review were identified.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Multivariable rate ratios (RRs) of POAG and associated 95%
confidence intervals (CIs) obtained from proportional hazards models.
RESULTS: After controlling for age, race, hypertension, body mass index, physical
activity, alcohol intake, smoking, and family history of glaucoma, T2DM was
positively associated with POAG (RR = 1.82 [95% CI = 1.23-2.70]). Nonetheless,
the association did not strengthen with longer duration of diabetes: RR = 2.24
(95% CI = 1.31-3.84) for duration < 5 years versus RR = 1.54 (95% CI = 0.90-2.62)
for duration > or = 5 years). In secondary analyses, to evaluate the potential
for detection bias we controlled for additional factors such as the number of eye
examinations, but T2DM remained positively associated with POAG.
CONCLUSION: Type 2 diabetes mellitus is associated with an increased risk of POAG
in women.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2006.01.066 
PMID: 16757028  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Pol Arch Med Wewn. 2003 Nov;110(5):1353-8.

[Primary open-angle glaucoma and nocturnal arterial hypotension in patients with 
diabetes mellitus].

[Article in Polish]

Mastej K(1), Adamiec R, Tubek S.

Author information: 
(1)Katedra i Klinika Angiologii, Nadciśnienia Tetniczego i Diabetologii AM we
Wrocławiu.


PMID: 16737007  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


490. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2006 Apr;22(2):139-44.

Association between topical prostaglandin analog use and development of choroidal
neovascular membranes in patients with concurrent glaucoma and age-related
macular degeneration.

Scherer WJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Montgomery Eye Center, Naples, FL 34103, USA. warrenscherer@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of enzymes that act to
degrade extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules, such as collagen, elastin, and
gelatin. The glaucoma medication latanoprost, and possibly other topical
prostaglandin analogs, increase uveoscleral outflow and lower intraocular
pressure (IOP) in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) by activating MMPs 1, 2, 3, 
and 9 in the ciliary body. It has been reported that latanoprost may also gain
access to the posterior segment and induce cystoid macular edema, although the
mechanism is unknown. In the choroid, activation of some of the same subtypes of 
MMPs (particularly subtypes 2 and 9) has been implicated in the formation of
choroidal neovascular membranes (CNVMs) in age-related macular degeneration
(AMD). This study examined whether topical prostaglandin analog use is associated
with a greater risk of CNVM formation in patients diagnosed with both AMD and
POAG.
METHODS: A retrospective record review was performed to identify patients with a 
concurrent diagnosis of AMD and POAG between 1998 and 2004. Four hundred and
eighty-four (484) eyes were identified and grouped as wet (n = 65) or dry (n =
419) AMD. Prostaglandin usage was compared between the two groups. Usage of other
glaucoma medications was also compared. A minimum of 1 year of topical glaucoma
medication was required for inclusion in the study. Exclusion criteria included a
history of CNVM prior to starting glaucoma medications and a previous history of 
glaucoma surgery.
RESULTS: Fifty-six percent (56%) of dry AMD and 62% of wet AMD eyes were using a 
topical prostaglandin (P > 0.10; not significant). Analysis of specific topical
prostaglandin analog usage in the wet versus dry AMD groups revealed no
statistically significant differences in the percentage of eyes treated with
latanoprost (37.7% versus 41.5%), bimatoprost (12.9% versus 10.8%), or travoprost
(9.2% versus 5.3%), respectively. No significant differences in the use of other 
glaucoma medications were observed between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: No association between long-term topical prostaglandin use and CNVM 
development was found in patients with AMD and POAG.

DOI: 10.1089/jop.2006.22.139 
PMID: 16722800  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jun;90(6):737-40.

Transscleral diode laser cyclophotocoagulation as primary surgical treatment for 
secondary glaucoma in juvenile idiopathic arthritis: high failure rate after
short term follow up.

Heinz C(1), Koch JM, Heiligenhaus A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, St Franziskus-Hospital, Muenster,
Hohenzollernring 54, 48145 Muenster, Germany. carsten.heinz@uveitis-zentrum.de

AIM: To evaluate the success rates of transscleral diode cyclophotocoagulation
(TD-CPC) for secondary glaucoma in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis
(JIA) as primary surgical treatment.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of 12 paediatric patients with JIA associated
uveitis and secondary open angle glaucoma.
RESULTS: 21 eyes of the 12 patients had chronic anterior uveitis, 21 eyes had
secondary open angle glaucoma, and 19 eyes were treated 41 times with TD-CPC.
Patients underwent a mean of 2.15 treatment sessions per eye. Pretreatment
intraocular pressure (IOP) was 30.2 (5.5) mm Hg before the first treatment, 30.5 
(5.7) mm Hg before the second treatment, and 28.7 (6.3) mm Hg before the third
treatment. Reduction of IOP 6 weeks after treatment was highest after the second 
and third treatments with 9.4 (8.8) and 8.7 (5.8) mm Hg, respectively and 5.2
(10.7) mm Hg after the first treatment. Qualified success (IOP </=21 mm Hg with
glaucoma medication) was achieved at the end of follow up in six of 19 eyes (32%,
follow up time 10.1 (9.3) months).
CONCLUSION: TD-CPC as a primary surgical treatment in JIA patients, is often
unsatisfactory in eyes with uveitic glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2005.085936 
PMCID: PMC1860242
PMID: 16714265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Surv Ophthalmol. 2006 May-Jun;51(3):179-212.

A sick eye in a sick body? Systemic findings in patients with primary open-angle 
glaucoma.

Pache M(1), Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic Freiburg, Germany.

Despite intense research, the pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) 
is still not completely understood. There is ample evidence for a
pathophysiological role of elevated intraocular pressure; however, several
systemic factors may influence onset and progression of the disease. Systemic
peculiarities found in POAG include alterations of the cardiovascular system,
autonomic nervous system, immune system, as well as endocrinological,
psychological, and sleep disturbances. An association between POAG and other
neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease, has 
also been described. Furthermore, the diagnosis of glaucoma can affect the
patient's quality of life. By highlighting the systemic alterations found in
POAG, this review attempts to bring glaucoma into a broader medical context.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2006.02.008 
PMID: 16644363  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Am J Ophthalmol. 2006 Apr;141(4):742-4.

The effect of the timing of scleral flap suture release on the safety and
long-term success of phacotrabeculectomy.

Banitt M(1), Juzych MS, Chopra V, Hughes BA, Kim C.

Author information: 
(1)Kresge Eye Institute, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit,
Michigan 48201, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate the effect of the timing of the scleral flap suture
release on the safety and long-term success of phacotrabeculectomy.
DESIGN: Retrospective, nonrandomized chart review.
METHODS: We studied 173 eyes of 173 consecutive patients who underwent primary
phacotrabeculectomy, with or without intraoperative mitomycin-C, and subsequent
scleral flap suture release.
RESULTS: Early suture release (<3 weeks) had a lower long-term success rate than 
late suture release (>3 weeks), with an average follow-up period of 44.8 months. 
Patients who used mitomycin-C had statistically later suture release than did
patients without mitomycin-C. There were nine cases of hypotony, for which
independent risk factors were early suture release and the use of mitomycin-C.
CONCLUSIONS: Greater long-term success with minimal complications was achieved
when scleral flap suture release was performed three weeks after
phacotrabeculectomy. Suture release within three weeks after surgery was
associated with an increased risk of filtration failure and a higher risk of
postoperative complications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2005.10.043 
PMID: 16564814  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2006 Apr;17(2):168-74.

Recent developments in understanding the pathophysiology of elevated intraocular 
pressure.

Tan JC(1), Peters DM, Kaufman PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The state of the actin cytoskeleton and adhesions of
trabecular meshwork cells are important determinants of fluid outflow through the
trabecular meshwork. Dysregulation of these subcellular structures or cell loss
itself, is expected to adversely affect aqueous humour dynamics and intraocular
pressure. This article reviews recent research into the regulation of the
cytoskeleton and cell adhesions within the trabecular meshwork.
RECENT FINDINGS: Key cytoskeleton regulatory pathways in trabecular meshwork
cells and their extracellular matrix significantly influence outflow facility.
Integrins and matrix proteins play an important part in cell-matrix communication
and mediate trabecular meshwork cytoskeletal changes. Increased cross-linking of 
the actin cytoskeleton may render the trabecular meshwork stiffer and more
resistant to aqueous outflow. In-vitro studies show that transforming growth
factor-beta induces actin stress fibres in trabecular meshwork cells, indicating 
that the cells become more contractile. Myocilin and the heparin II domain of
fibronectin also influence the actin cytoskeleton. Mutated myocilin appears to
affect trabecular meshwork cells differently from wild-type myocilin and can
reduce cell survival. Reduced cell survival is also associated with primary open 
angle glaucoma, ageing, cellular senescence and oxidative insults.
SUMMARY: These findings represent advances in understanding physiological and
pathogenic mechanisms within the trabecular meshwork that are relevant to
intraocular pressure regulation in health and glaucoma. They pave the way for
future research on the pathogenesis of glaucoma and new targets for glaucoma
therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.icu.0000193079.55240.18 
PMID: 16552252  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2006 Apr;17(2):163-7.

Corticosteroid-induced ocular hypertension and glaucoma: a brief review and
update of the literature.

Jones R 3rd(1), Rhee DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear
Infirmary, Glaucoma Service, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this article is to briefly review the
literature of corticosteroid-induced ocular hypertension and glaucoma, its risk
factors, the pathophysiology, and treatment options. In particular, literature
pertaining to glaucoma in response to intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide will
be reviewed.
RECENT FINDINGS: Primary open-angle glaucoma, status as a glaucoma suspect, and a
family history of glaucoma are risk factors for an ocular hypertensive response
with the use of corticosteroid therapy. Recent studies suggest that younger age
may also be a risk factor in patients treated via the intravitreal route with
corticosteroids. The mechanism of elevated intraocular pressure is increased
aqueous outflow resistance owing to an accumulation of extracellular matrix
material in the trabecular meshwork.
SUMMARY: Corticosteroid-induced ocular hypertension and glaucoma has been
recognized for more than 50 years. Knowing the risk factors, prevalence, and
pathophysiology can help the clinician prevent, monitor, and treat
corticosteroid-induced ocular hypertension and glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/01.icu.0000193079.55240.18 
PMID: 16552251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2006 Apr;17(2):138-41.

The European Glaucoma Prevention Study and the Ocular Hypertension Treatment
Study: why do two studies have different results?

Parrish RK 2nd(1).

Author information: 
(1)Leonard Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, Florida 33143, 
USA. rparrish@med.miami.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To understand the results of the Ocular Hypertension Treatment
Study and the European Glaucoma Prevention Study and to explain differences in
their findings and recommendations.
RECENT FINDINGS: The value of lowering intraocular pressure with medical therapy 
to delay or prevent the progression from ocular hypertension to primary
open-angle glaucoma has been the subject of two recently completed large clinical
trials, the Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study and the European Glaucoma
Prevention Study. In the Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study, patients were
randomized to either medical treatment to achieve a 20% reduction in intraocular 
pressure or to careful observation. European Glaucoma Prevention Study patients
were randomized to receive either topical dorzolamide or the vehicle for the
commercially available solution without a specific intraocular pressure goal. The
apparent difference in benefit of reducing the conversion rate by lowering
intraocular pressure in these two studies may be explained by understanding the
methodological differences in study design.
SUMMARY: The benefit of lowering intraocular pressure to reduce the rate of
progression from ocular hypertension to primary open-angle glaucoma has been
established in the Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study. Failure to demonstrate a 
comparable benefit in the European Glaucoma Prevention Study relates to the
selective drop-out of treated and untreated patients with higher intraocular
pressure levels and to the failure to achieve sufficient lowering of intraocular 
pressure. The evidence that the placebo effect was responsible for progressive
intraocular pressure-lowering over the 5-year study is not convincing and is
likely a result of the regression to the mean phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1097/01.icu.0000193079.55240.18 
PMID: 16552248  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2006 Oct;244(10):1293-9. Epub 2006 Mar 21.

Transscleral diode laser cyclophotocoagulation as primary and secondary surgical 
treatment in primary open-angle and pseudoexfoliatve glaucoma. Long-term clinical
outcomes.

Grueb M(1), Rohrbach JM, Bartz-Schmidt KU, Schlote T.

Author information: 
(1)University of Tübingen, Department of Ophthalmology, Schleichstrasse 12,
72076, Tübingen, Germany. matthias.grueb@med.uni-tuebingen.de

BACKGROUND: Transscleral diode laser cyclophotocoagulation (TDLC) has been used
successfully in the treatment of refractive glaucoma. However, little is known
about TDLC as a primary or secondary surgical procedure in primary open-angle and
pseudoexfoliative glaucoma.
METHODS: In a retrospective chart review we analyzed 90 eyes (48 OD/42 OS) in 90 
patients (mean age 75 years, range 60-92 years; 51 men/39 woman) with primary
open-angle glaucoma (n=66) and pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (n=24) who
consecutively underwent TDLC with a minimum follow-up of 24 months. In 24 eyes
(26.7%) TDLC was the primary surgical treatment. Mean energy was 80 J (60-92 J). 
Success was defined as a final intraocular pressure (IOP) between 4 and 18 mmHg, 
a minimum IOP reduction of 20% and the absence of major complications.
RESULTS: The overall success rate was 36.7% after 24 months. A mean of 1.3
procedures was performed per patient. No correlation between age and success rate
(p=0.887) or gender and success rate (p=0.895) was seen. There was no significant
reduction in antiglaucomatous medication (p=0.208), no significant loss of visual
acuity (p=0.324) nor a significant relationship between loss of visual acuity and
failure of treatment (p=0.201). In patients with primary open-angle glaucoma the 
success rate was 40.9% after 24 months; in patients with pseudoexfoliative
glaucoma it was 25.0% after 24 months. There was no significant difference
between primary open-angle glaucoma and pseudoexfoliative glaucoma (p=0.684).
Previous ocular surgery decreased the success probability from 45.8 to 33.3%
(p=0.001). Prolonged hypotonia occurred in 1 patient. No phthisis bulbi
developed.
CONCLUSIONS: Transscleral diode laser cyclophotocoagulation is an effective and
safe method not only in the treatment of refractive glaucoma, but also as a
primary surgical procedure in primary open-angle and pseudoexfoliative glaucoma. 
TDLC may be used more widely in glaucoma therapy, although further long-term
studies have to confirm these findings.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-006-0280-z 
PMID: 16550406  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Recenti Prog Med. 2006 Jan;97(1):37-45.

[Open angle glaucoma: epidemiology, pathogenesis and prevention].

[Article in Italian]

Izzotti A(1), Di Marco B, De Flora S, Saccà S.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze della Salute, Università, Genova.

There is growing evidence that reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a key role in
the pathogenesis of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG). The occurrence of
oxidative DNA damage in trabecular meshwork (TM) has been demonstrated by
measuring the increase of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine, the most abundant DNA
oxidative alteration, which is significantly increased in glaucoma-bearing
subjects as compared with unaffected controls. Several lines of evidence support 
the hypothesis that ROS play a fundamental pathogenic role, including the
following: (a) outflow resistance in the anterior chamber increases in the
presence of high levels of hydrogen peroxide; (b) TM possesses abundant
antioxidant activities; (c) significant increases in superoxide dismutase and
glutathione peroxidase activities were detected in the aqueous humour of glaucoma
patients; (d) hydrogen peroxide compromises TM integrity. The existence of a
significant correlation between oxidative DNA damage and intraocular pressure in 
glaucoma patients has been reported. POAG patients appear to have a genetic
predisposition rendering them susceptible to ROS-induced damage because of a more
frequent deletion, as compared to controls, of the gene encoding for
glutathione-S-transferase M1, a pivotal anti-oxidant activity. Furthermore,
oxidative stress, occurring not only in TM but also in retinal cells, appears to 
be involved in the neuronal cell death that characterizes POAG. These
considerations could bear relevance for POAG prevention and suggest that genetic 
analyses and the use of drugs or dietary measures attenuating the effects of ROS,
if validated in future studies, could be useful tools contributing to the control
of this disease.


PMID: 16535929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


499. J AAPOS. 2006 Feb;10(1):7-21.

Glaucoma in children: are we making progress?

Biglan AW(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Department of Ophthalmology,
Cranberry Township, PA, USA. abiglan@bellatlantic.net

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma in children presents difficult clinical challenges. Even
when appropriately treated, blindness can occur.
DESIGN: Retrospective interventional case series and literature review.
METHODS: All clinical records of children seen by the author with a diagnosis of 
glaucoma established before 16 years of age were reviewed from 1977 to 2003.
Glaucoma was classified as primary infantile, aphakic, syndrome-related, and
secondary. The best-corrected visual acuity, refractive error, configuration of
the optic nerve cup, and perimetry were recorded. The intraocular pressure (IOP) 
for each visit was recorded. IOP measurements of 19 mm Hg or less were considered
"good." The percentage of "good" readings was calculated for each eye.
Representative visual acuities, refractive errors, IOP, disk configuration, and
perimetry were recorded at 6, 12, 18, and 24 years of age for each patient. The
admitting ophthalmologic diagnosis for each child at the Western Pennsylvania
School for Blind Children was recorded from 1887 to 2003.
RESULTS: One hundred twenty-six children (204 eyes) were studied: infantile
glaucoma, 52 eyes; aphakic glaucoma, 40 eyes; syndrome associated, 69 eyes; and
secondary glaucoma, 43 eyes. The mean follow-up was 11.6 years (1 to 30 years).
Overall, 60 (29.4%) of 204 eyes had a 6/12 (20/40) or better corrected visual
acuity at the most recent visit. The percentage with this acuity remained stable 
throughout the follow-up period. Eyes with infantile glaucoma had the best
acuity, and 40% had 6/12 (20/40) or better. Amblyopia was common and responded to
treatment. Eyes with aphakic glaucoma had the worst acuity with only 10%
achieving 6/12 or better. These eyes had a bimodal onset of glaucoma; eyes with
an early onset had an angle closure configuration and eyes with a delayed onset
had an open angle. Early cataract removal and microcornea were risk factors for
glaucoma. If the IOP was maintained at 19 mm Hg or less (good) on 80% of the
determinations over time, the optic nerve cup compared with the diameter of the
optic nerve (C/D ratios) were stable. Eight patients had multiple, good quality, 
visual fields performed over 3 to 15 years. If the patients had "good" IOP on 70%
of the measurements, the visual fields remained stable. A historical perspective 
of glaucoma control was gained by looking at the admitting diagnosis at the
Western Pennsylvania School for Blind Children. From 1910 to 1970, an average of 
9.2 children blind due to glaucoma were admitted each decade. From 1971 to 2003, 
there were only three children with glaucoma admitted over 30 years.
CONCLUSION: Removal of congenital cataracts should be delayed until 3 to 4 weeks 
of age. Consideration should be given for using 19 mm Hg or less to measure the
success of glaucoma treatment in children. Treatment of amblyopia is as important
as IOP control in children. Imaging technology such as optical coherence
tomography and measurement of central corneal thickness may play an important
future role in the assessment of children with suspected or known glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaapos.2005.10.001 
PMID: 16527674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jan-Feb;16(1):92-9.

Resource use and costs for a glaucoma screening program in Austria: an 8-year
review: a cost-consequence analysis based on the Salzburg-Moorfields
Collaborative Glaucoma Study.

Hitzl W(1), Ortner C, Hornykewycz K, Grabner G, Reitsamer HA.

Author information: 
(1)University Eye Clinic for Ophthalmology and Optometry, Paracelsus Medical
University Salzburg, Austria. W.Hitzl@salk.at

PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to report costs, detection rates, and resources
needed for detection of primary open angle glaucoma and related diseases in a
glaucoma screening program in Salzburg, Austria, over a period of 8 years.
METHODS: The Salzburg-Moorfields Collaborative Glaucoma Study performed a
complete ophthalmologic examination on a total of 4864 subjects within a study
period of approximately 8 years (98 months). The total numbers reported are total
number of subjects screened at the initial examination and follow-up
examinations; total working hours and estimated working hours per visit for one
ophthalmologist and two medical assistants; direct costs per visit; detection
rates for subjects; and corresponding costs per true positive case diagnosed with
definite primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), early POAG, POAG suspect, ocular
hypertension (OHT), and glaucoma artefact.
RESULTS: Within the screening period of 98 months, a total of 9427 examinations
and second verification checks were performed: 5466 at the initial examination,
404 at the 1-year follow-up, 815 at the 2-year follow-up, 339 at the 3-year
follow-up, 225 at the 4-year follow-up, 1059 at the 5-year follow-up, 996 at the 
6-year follow-up, 118 at the 7-year follow-up, and 5 at the 8-year follow-up. The
total amount of time spent for screening was 23,814 working hours. We estimate
the costs per visit at EUR 123 for each initial examination, EUR 28 for each
second confirmation check, and EUR 95 per follow-up examination. The following
detection rates were observed: definite POAG: 1.7% (95% CI: 1.3-2.2%), early
POAG: 2.9% (95% CI: 2.3-3.5%), POAG suspect: 8.5% (95% CI: 7.6-9.4%), OHT: 2.2%
(95% CI: 1.7-2.7%), glaucoma artefact or other causes: 5.8% (95% CI: 5.1-6.6%),
normal cases: 79% (95% CI: 78-80%).
CONCLUSIONS: Direct costs per visit were considerably higher than those reported 
in the Netherlands or the United Kingdom. If a health care provider decides to
perform a glaucoma screening within this setting, the costs for the detection of 
a new case are EUR 7250 for definite POAG, EUR 4250 for early POAG, EUR 1450 for 
POAG suspect, EUR 5600 for OHT, EUR 2100 for glaucoma artefact case, and EUR 156 
for a normal case.


PMID: 16496251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Eye (Lond). 2007 May;21(5):604-8. Epub 2006 Feb 17.

Lifetime visual prognosis for patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.

Ang GS(1), Eke T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, Norwich,
UK.

AIM: To investigate final visual outcome in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG)
including low-tension glaucoma (LTG).
METHODS: Retrospective review of case notes for patients who died between 1999
and 2002. All were booked for a follow-up appointment in glaucoma clinic at time 
of death.
RESULTS: A total of 121 case notes were reviewed. In all, 113 patients had POAG
and eight had LTG. All were White Caucasians. Mean ages at presentation and death
were 74.6 (SD 9.6, range 49-94) and 81.9 (SD 8.3, range 51-98) years,
respectively. Mean follow-up duration was 7.4 (SD 6.8, range up to 29) years.
Average number of clinic visits was 18 (SD 17, range 1-95). At final visit, 50.4%
had cataract operations, and 45.5% had glaucoma operations. At final visit,
vision was inadequate for driving in the UK in 47.1%. In 18.2%, this was due to
glaucoma alone, while in 28.9%, other ocular pathologies contributed to poor
vision. In all, 14% were eligible for partial sight certification, with 6.6% due 
to glaucoma alone. A total of 3.3% were eligible for blind certification, none
due to glaucoma alone.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that POAG does affect the quality of life, with
regards to glaucoma clinic visits, eye drops, and surgical procedures. Most
patients with treated POAG in Norfolk will retain useful vision for their whole
life. A significant proportion of patients with POAG do lose vision resulting in 
driving ineligibility and certification as visually impaired, although actual
blindness is uncommon.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702284 
PMID: 16485015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Br J Ophthalmol. 2006 Jun;90(6):741-3. Epub 2006 Feb 7.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty: predictive value of early intraocular pressure
measurements for success at 3 months.

Johnson PB(1), Katz LJ, Rhee DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, 243 Charles Street, Boston, MA 02114,
USA.

AIM: To determine the predictive value of the 2 week post-selective laser
trabeculoplasty (SLT) intraocular pressure (IOP) by comparing it to the 4 week
and 3 month values.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of eyes that underwent SLT between 2001 and
2004 was performed. The primary outcome measure was IOP. Demographic and medical 
data were collected for correlational analysis.
RESULTS: 132 eyes of 95 patients were identified, none was excluded. Of the eyes 
that exhibited a decrease in IOP of >1 mm Hg at 2 weeks postoperatively, 99.24%
continued to show a lowered IOP at the 4 week and 3 month visits. For these
patients, the Pearson's r value between 2 weeks and 4 weeks was 0.708 (p value = 
0.01) while the r value between 2 weeks and 3 months was 0.513 (p value = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The 2 week visit post-SLT predicted the 4 week and 3 month visits if
the 2 week visit demonstrated a decrease in IOP. These findings suggest that
those patients who had a decreased IOP at 2 weeks and are at their goal IOP may
not need to be screened until 3 months postoperatively.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2005.086363 
PMCID: PMC1860216
PMID: 16464972  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Mutat Res. 2006 Mar;612(2):105-14. Epub 2006 Jan 18.

The role of oxidative stress in glaucoma.

Izzotti A(1), Bagnis A, Saccà SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Genoa, via A. Pastore 1, I-16132 
Genoa, Italy. izzotti@unige.it

DNA damage is related to a variety of degenerative diseases such as cancer,
atherosclerosis and neurodegenerative diseases, depending on the tissue affected.
Increasing evidence indicates that reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a key role 
in the pathogenesis of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), the main cause of
irreversible blindness worldwide. Oxidative DNA damage is significantly increased
in the ocular epithelium regulating aqueous humor outflow, i.e., the trabecular
meshwork (TM), of glaucomatous patients compared to controls. The pathogenic role
of ROS in glaucoma is supported by various experimental findings, including (a)
resistance to aqueous humor outflow is increased by hydrogen peroxide by inducing
TM degeneration; (b) TM possesses remarkable antioxidant activities, mainly
related to superoxide dismutase-catalase and glutathione pathways that are
altered in glaucoma patients; and (c) intraocular-pressure increase and severity 
of visual-field defects in glaucoma patients parallel the amount of oxidative DNA
damage affecting TM. Vascular alterations, which are often associated with
glaucoma, could contribute to the generation of oxidative damage. Oxidative
stress, occurring not only in TM but also in retinal cells, appears to be
involved in the neuronal cell death affecting the optic nerve in POAG. The
highlighting of the pathogenic role of ROS in POAG has implications for the
prevention of this disease as indicated by the growing number of studies using
genetic analyses to identify susceptible individuals and of clinical trials
testing the efficacy of antioxidant drugs for POAG management.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mrrev.2005.11.001 
PMID: 16413223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Clin Biochem. 2006 Mar;39(3):231-9. Epub 2006 Jan 10.

Molecular diagnostics of genetic eye diseases.

Fan BJ(1), Tam PO, Choy KW, Wang DY, Lam DS, Pang CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong Eye Hospital, 147K Argyle Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong.

Eye diseases can be simple or complex, and mostly of heterogeneous molecular
genetics. Some eye diseases are caused by mutations in a single gene, but some
diseases, such as primary open angle glaucoma, can be due to sequence variations 
in multiple genes. In some diseases, both genetic and epigenetic mechanisms are
involved, as was recently revealed in the mechanism of retinoblastoma. Disease
causative mutations and phenotypes may vary by ethnicity and geography. To date, 
more than a hundred candidate genes for eye diseases are known, although less
than 20 have definite disease-causing mutations. The three common genetic eye
diseases, primary open angle glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration, and
retinitis pigmentosa, all have known gene mutations, but these account for only a
portion of the patients. While the search for eye disease genes and mutations
still goes on, known mutations have been utilized for diagnosis. Genetic markers 
for pre-symptomatic and pre-natal diagnosis are available for specific diseases
such as primary open angle glaucoma and retinoblastoma. This paper reviews the
molecular basis of common genetic eye diseases and the available genetic markers 
for clinical diagnosis. Difficulties and challenges in molecular investigation of
some eye diseases are discussed. Establishment of ethnic-specific disease
databases that contain both clinical and genetic information for identification
of genetic markers with diagnostic, prognostic, or pharmacological value is
strongly advocated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2005.11.010 
PMID: 16412407  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Arch Ophthalmol. 2006 Jan;124(1):12-9.

A multicenter, retrospective pilot study of resource use and costs associated
with severity of disease in glaucoma.

Lee PP(1), Walt JG, Doyle JJ, Kotak SV, Evans SJ, Budenz DL, Chen PP, Coleman AL,
Feldman RM, Jampel HD, Katz LJ, Mills RP, Myers JS, Noecker RJ, Piltz-Seymour JR,
Ritch RR, Schacknow PN, Serle JB, Trick GL.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine resource consumption and the direct costs of treating
glaucoma at different disease severity levels.
DESIGN: Observational, retrospective cohort study based on medical record review.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred fifty-one records of patients with primary open-angle
or normal-tension glaucoma, glaucoma suspect, or ocular hypertension (age > or
=18 years) were randomly selected from 12 sites in the United States and
stratified according to severity based on International Classification of
Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification codes. Patients had to have been 
followed up for a minimum of 5 years. Patients with concomitant ocular disease
likely to affect glaucoma treatment-related resource consumption were excluded.
METHODS: Glaucoma severity was assessed and assigned using a 6-stage glaucoma
staging system, modified from the Bascom Palmer (Hodapp-Anderson-Parrish) system.
Clinical and resource use data were collected from the medical record review.
Resource consumption for low-vision care and vision rehabilitation was estimated 
for patients with end-stage disease based on specialist surveys. For each stage
of disease, publicly available economic data were then applied to assign resource
valuation and estimate patient-level direct costs from the payer perspective.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Average annual resource use and estimated total annual
direct cost of treatment were calculated at the patient level and stratified by
stage of disease. Direct costs by specific resource types, including
ophthalmology visits, glaucoma surgeries, medications, visual field examinations,
and other glaucoma services, were also assessed.
RESULTS: Direct ophthalmology-related resource use, including ophthalmology
visits, glaucoma surgeries, and medication use, increased as disease severity
worsened. Average direct cost of treatment ranged from $623 per patient per year 
for glaucoma suspects or patients with early-stage disease to $2511 per patient
per year for patients with end-stage disease. Medication costs composed the
largest proportion of total direct cost for all stages of disease (range,
24%-61%).
CONCLUSIONS: The study results suggest that resource use and direct cost of
glaucoma management increase with worsening disease severity. Based on these
findings, a glaucoma treatment that delays the progression of disease could have 
the potential to significantly reduce the health economic burden of this chronic 
disease over many years.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.124.1.12 
PMID: 16401779  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Niger J Clin Pract. 2005 Jun;8(1):29-34.

A review of the choice of therapy in primary open angle glaucoma.

Omoti AE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Benin Teaching Hospital, P. M. B.
1111, Benin-City. afeomoti@yahoo.com

We are in the midst of a therapeutic revolution and the choice of therapy in the 
management of glaucoma can no longer be based on long-held beliefs. The choice
between medical, surgical and argon laser trabeculoplasty as primary therapy for 
glaucoma has been a matter of debate and research for many years. Arguments are
based mainly on 3 factors: efficacy, safety and cost. In Africa, other factors
that must be considered include acceptability of surgery, compliance with medical
therapy, scarcity and expense of modern drugs, absence of laser facilities among 
others. It is generally accepted that trabeculectomy surgery is the most
acceptable form of therapy in Africans mainly because of its efficacy, late
presentation and problems encountered during medical therapy. However many
African patients are reluctant to have surgery for glaucoma mainly because of
fear and the fact that there will be no visual improvement after the surgery.
There are now several potent modern drugs, which though expensive have acceptable
safety profile, and fewer problems with compliance. The decision on the choice of
therapy should be individualized and not be based on long-held beliefs.


PMID: 16392453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2006;6(15):1-81. Epub 2006 Jul 1.

Routine eye examinations for persons 20-64 years of age: an evidence-based
analysis.

Health Quality Ontario.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this analysis was to determine the strength of
association between age, gender, ethnicity, family history of disease and
refractive error and the risk of developing glaucoma or ARM?
CLINICAL NEED: A routine eye exam serves a primary, secondary, and tertiary care 
role. In a primary care role, it allows contact with a doctor who can provide
advice about eye care, which may reduce the incidence of eye disease and injury. 
In a secondary care role, it can via a case finding approach, diagnose persons
with degenerative eye diseases such as glaucoma and or AMD, and lead to earlier
treatment to slow the progression of the disease. Finally in a tertiary care
role, it provides ongoing monitoring and treatment to those with diseases
associated with vision loss. Glaucoma is a progressive degenerative disease of
the optic nerve, which causes gradual loss of peripheral (side) vision, and in
advanced disease states loss of central vision. Blindness may results if glaucoma
is not diagnosed and managed. The prevalence of primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) ranges from 1.1% to 3.0% in Western populations, and from 4.2% to 8.8% in 
populations of African descent. It is estimated up to 50% of people with glaucoma
are aware that they have the disease. In Canada, glaucoma disease is the second
leading cause of blindness in people aged 50 years and older. Tonometry,
inspection of the optic disc and perimetry are used concurrently by physicians
and optometrists to make the diagnosis of glaucoma. In general, the evidence
shows that treating people with increased IOP only, increased IOP and clinical
signs of early glaucoma or with normal-tension glaucoma can reduce the
progression of disease. Age-related maculopathy (ARM) is a degenerative disease
of the macula, which is a part of the retina. Damage to the macula causes loss of
central vision affecting the ability to read, recognize faces and to move about
freely. ARM can be divided into an early- stage (early ARM) and a late-stage
(AMD). AMD is the leading cause of blindness in developed countries. The
prevalence of AMD increases with increasing age. It is estimated that 1% of
people 55 years of age, 5% aged 75 to 84 years and 15% 80 years of age and older 
have AMD. ARM can be diagnosed during fundoscopy (ophthalmoscopy) which is a
visual inspection of the retina by a physician or optometrist, or from a
photograph of the retina. There is no cure or prevention for ARM. Likewise, there
is currently no treatment to restore vision lost due to AMD. However, there are
treatments to delay the progression of the disease and further loss of vision.
THE TECHNOLOGY: A periodic oculo-visual assessment is defined "as an examination 
of the eye and vision system rendered primarily to determine if a patient has a
simple refractive error (visual acuity assessment) including myopia,
hypermetropia, presbyopia, anisometropia or astigmatism." This service includes a
history of the presenting complaint, past medical history, visual acuity
examination, ocular mobility examination, slit lamp examination of the anterior
segment, ophthalmoscopy, and tonometry (measurement of IOP) and is completed by
either a physician or an optometrist.
REVIEW STRATEGY: THE MEDICAL ADVISORY SECRETARIAT CONDUCTED A COMPUTERIZED SEARCH
OF THE LITERATURE IN THE FOLLOWING DATABASES: OVID MEDLINE, MEDLINE, In-Process &
Other Non-Indexed Citations, EMBASE, INAHTA and the Cochrane Library. The search 
was limited to English-language articles with human subjects, published from
January 2000 to March 2006. In addition, a search was conducted for published
guidelines, health technology assessments, and policy decisions. Bibliographies
of references of relevant papers were searched for additional references that may
have been missed in the computerized database search. Studies including
participants 20 years and older, population-based prospective cohort studies,
population-based cross-sectional studies when prospective cohort studies were
unavailable or insufficient and studies determining and reporting the strength of
association or risk- specific prevalence or incidence rates of either age,
gender, ethnicity, refractive error or family history of disease and the risk of 
developing glaucoma or AMD were included in the review. The Grading of
Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) system was used to
summarize the overall quality of the body of evidence.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS: A total of 498 citations for the period January 2000 through
February 2006 were retrieved and an additional 313 were identified when the
search was expanded to include articles published between 1990 and 1999. An
additional 6 articles were obtained from bibliographies of relevant articles. Of 
these, 36 articles were retrieved for further evaluation. Upon review, 1
meta-analysis and 15 population-based epidemiological studies were accepted for
this review PRIMARY OPEN ANGLE GLAUCOMA: Age Six cross-sectional studies and 1
prospective cohort study contributed data on the association between age and
PAOG. From the data it can be concluded that the prevalence and 4-year incidence 
of POAG increases with increasing age. The odds of having POAG are statistically 
significantly greater for people 50 years of age and older relative to those 40
to 49 years of age. There is an estimated 7% per year incremental odds of having 
POAG in persons 40 years of age and older, and 10% per year in persons 49 years
of age and older. POAG is undiagnosed in up to 50% of the population. The quality
of the evidence is moderate. Gender Five cross-sectional studies evaluated the
association between gender and POAG. Consistency in estimates is lacking among
studies and because of this the association between gender and prevalent POAG is 
inconclusive. The quality of the evidence is very low. Ethnicity Only 1
cross-sectional study compared the prevalence rates of POAG between black and
white participants. These data suggest that prevalent glaucoma is statistically
significantly greater in a black population 50 years of age and older compared
with a white population of similar age. There is an overall 4-fold increase in
prevalent POAG in a black population compared with a white population. This
increase may be due to a confounding variable not accounted for in the analysis. 
The quality of the evidence is low. Refractive Error Four cross-sectional studies
assessed the association of myopia and POAG. These data suggest an association
between myopia defined as a spherical equivalent of -1.00D or worse and prevalent
POAG. However, there is inconsistency in results regarding the statistical
significance of the association between myopia when defined as a spherical
equivalent of -0.5D. The quality of the evidence is very low. Family History of
POAG Three cross-sectional studies investigated the association between family
history of glaucoma and prevalent POAG. These data suggest a 2.5 to 3.0 fold
increase in the odds having POAG in persons with a family history (any
first-degree relative) of POAG. The quality of the evidence is moderate.
AGE-RELATED MACULOPATHY: Age Four cohort studies evaluated the association
between age and early ARM and AMD. After 55 years of age, the incidence of both
early ARM and AMD increases with increasing age. Progression to AMD occurs in up 
to 12% of persons with early ARM. The quality of the evidence is low Gender Four 
cohort studies evaluated the association between gender and early ARM and AMD.
Gender differences in incident early ARM and incident AMD are not supported from 
these data. The quality of the evidence is lows. Ethnicity One meta-analysis and 
2 cross-sectional studies reported the ethnic-specific prevalence rates of ARM.
The data suggests that the prevalence of early ARM is higher in a white
population compared with a black population. The data suggest that the
ethnic-specific differences in the prevalence of AMD remain inconclusive.
Refractive Error Two cohort studies investigated the association between
refractive error and the development of incident early ARM and AMD. The quality
of the evidence is very low. Family History Two cross-sectional studies evaluated
the association of family history and early ARM and AMD. Data from one study
supports an association between a positive family history of AMD and having AMD. 
The results of the study indicate an almost 4-fold increase in the odds of any
AMD in a person with a family history of AMD. The quality of the evidence, as
based on the GRADE criteria is moderate.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS: The prevalence of glaucoma is estimated at 1 to 3% for a
Caucasian population and 4.2 to 8.8% for a black population. The incidence of
glaucoma is estimated at 0.5 to 2.5% per year in the literature. The percentage
of people who go blind per year as a result of glaucoma is approximately 0.55%.
The total population of Ontarians aged 50 to 64 years is estimated at 2.6 million
based on the April 2006 Ontario Ministry of Finance population estimates. The
range of utilization for a major eye examination in 2006/07 for this age group is
estimated at 567,690 to 669,125, were coverage for major eye exams extended to
this age group. This would represent a net increase in utilization of
approximately 440,116 to 541,551. The percentage of Ontario population
categorized as black and/or those with a family history of glaucoma was
approximately 20%. Therefore, the estimated range of utilization for a major eye 
examination in 2006/07 for this sub-population is estimated at 113,538 - 138,727 
(20% of the estimated range of utilization in total population of 50-64 year olds
in Ontario), were coverage for major eye exams extended to this sub-group. This
would represent a net increase in utilization of approximately 88,023 to 108,310 
within this sub-group.
COSTS: The total cost of a major eye examination by a physician is $42. (ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED)


PMCID: PMC3379534
PMID: 23074485  [PubMed]


508. Clin Biochem. 2006 Mar;39(3):249-58. Epub 2005 Dec 5.

Gene mapping for primary open angle glaucoma.

Fan BJ(1), Wang DY, Lam DS, Pang CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong Eye Hospital, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China. bjfan@cuhk.edu.hk

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause of visual impairment and
blindness worldwide. To date, at least 20 genetic loci for POAG have been
reported. Only 3 causative genes are identified from these loci: myocilin (MYOC),
optineurin (OPTN) and WD repeat domain 36 (WDR36), which together account for
less than 10% of POAG. Only a portion of POAG follows Mendelian inheritance, and 
a considerable fraction results from a large number of variants in several genes,
each contributing small effects. Over the past 10 years, there has been vigorous 
research on mapping the POAG genes. The main technological approaches are
functional cloning, family linkage analysis, genome-wide scan, case-control
association study, and microarray analysis. Association studies found 16 genes
related to POAG, but reports on glaucoma-causing effects of these genes are
conflicting. Ten microarray gene expression studies related to POAG have been
published. A number of genes potentially related to POAG have been identified,
and they provide a good resource to select candidate genes for mutation analysis 
in association studies. While linkage studies remain a mainstay, the current
trend is to use genome-wide association studies to map genes for POAG. This
review gives an overview of the efforts in the past decade to identify the POAG
genes through linkage studies, genome-wide scans, case-control association
studies and microarray studies. In the near future such comprehensive studies are
expected to greatly advance our understanding of the genetic basis of POAG and
provide information for effective glaucoma therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2005.11.001 
PMID: 16332362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Vis Neurosci. 2005 Sep-Oct;22(5):605-13.

Cochlin and glaucoma: a mini-review.

Bhattacharya SK(1), Peachey NS, Crabb JW.

Author information: 
(1)Cole Eye Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.
bhattas@ccf.org

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause of late onset, progressive,
irreversible blindness and, although its etiology is poorly understood, elevated 
intraocular pressure (IOP) often appears to be a contributory factor. Proteomic
and Western analyses of trabecular meshwork (TM) from patients with POAG and
age-matched controls originally implicated cochlin as possibly contributing to
glaucoma pathogenesis. Cochlin deposits were subsequently detected in
glaucomatous but not in control TM and older glaucomatous TM was found to contain
higher levels of cochlin and significantly lower amounts of collagen type II.
More recently, similar results were reported in DBA/2J mice, which at older ages 
develop elevated IOP, retinal ganglion cell degeneration, and optic nerve damage.
Notably, cochlin was absent in TM from C57BL/6J, CD1, and BALBc/ByJ mice, which
do not exhibit elevated IOP or glaucoma. Cochlin was found in the TM of very
young DBA/2J mice, prior to elevated IOP, suggesting that over time the protein
may contribute to the events leading to increased IOP and optic nerve damage.
Here we review these findings and describe how future studies in DBA/2J mice can 
help resolve whether cochlin plays a causal role in mechanisms of POAG and
elevated IOP.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523805225099 
PMCID: PMC1483214
PMID: 16332271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Curr Med Res Opin. 2005 Nov;21(11):1875-83.

Analytic review of bimatoprost, latanoprost and travoprost in primary open angle 
glaucoma.

Holmstrom S(1), Buchholz P, Walt J, Wickstrøm J, Aagren M.

Author information: 
(1)Allergan Europe, Pforzheimer Str. 160, D-76275 Ettlingen, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this review was to evaluate different measures of
efficacy of the intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering lipid class agents
bimatoprost, latanoprost and travoprost in the treatment of primary open angle
glaucoma. Study arms of timolol in trials including the above mentioned lipid
class drugs were also included.
METHODS: MEDLINE and EMBASE were searched for randomized clinical trials
including one or more of the lipid class drugs bimatoprost, latanoprost and
travoprost. The study results were pooled, and the simple, weighted IOP-lowering 
efficacy was compared among the lipid class drugs and timolol, where data were
available. Efficacy parameters were reviewed, including mean reduction of IOP and
percentage of patients achieving different levels of IOP.
RESULTS: 161 articles were identified of which 42 were included in the analysis. 
A total of 9295 patients participated in the included trials. Based on all
studies, timolol on average had a weighted mean IOP reduction of 22.2%, while
latanoprost, travoprost and bimatoprost had a weighted mean IOP reduction of
26.7%, 28.7% and 30.3%, respectively. Analysis of target achievement to various
IOP levels shows that bimatoprost seems more efficacious than latanoprost. The
direct comparisons (head-to-head studies) also show that bimatoprost is the most 
efficacious treatment, however it is not conclusive whether latanoprost or
travoprost is better in reducing IOP.
CONCLUSIONS: This review shows that bimatoprost seems to be the most efficacious 
treatment in lowering IOP. Head-to-head studies confirm this.

DOI: 10.1185/030079905X65600 
PMID: 16307709  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Exp Eye Res. 2006 Mar;82(3):357-61. Epub 2005 Nov 10.

Choroidal innervation in primate eyes.

Lütjen-Drecoll E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy II, University Erlangen-Nürnberg, Universitätsstrasse
19, 91054 Erlangen, Germany. lisa.koehler@anatomie2.med.uni-erlangen.de

Arteries and arterioles of the choroid are surrounded by numerous nerve fibers
staining for nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP).
In most mammalian eyes these nerve fibers derive from the pterygopalatine
ganglion via the facial nerve. Stimulation of the facial nerve causes
vasodilation of the choroidal vasculature. In primates with a well developed
fovea centralis there are ganglion cells in the choroidal stroma which in human
eyes amount to around 2000. The postganglionic nerve fibers of these choroidal
ganglion cells (CGC) join the perivascular nerve fiber plexus. The CGC stain for 
NOS and VIP like the nerve cells within the pterygopalatine ganglion. There are, 
however, differences between the two cell populations. Immunohistochemical and
ultrastructural classification of the CGC show that in addition to NOS and VIP
almost half of the cells stain for calretinin, single ones for neuropeptide Y
(NPY) and galanin. A number of cells is in close contact with numerous boutons
staining for nNOS, VIP, NPY, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), vesicular monoaminergic
transporter (VMAT)2, vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VACHT), calretinin, and
NPY. These data indicate a more complex integrative function of CGCs e.g. volume 
regulation in parallel with ciliary muscle contraction during accommodation.
Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies indicate, that CGCs in addition
may have mechanosensory properties. Whether they are involved in
volume-regulatory functions independent of accommodation is not yet known. In
glaucoma disease the number of CGCs is significantly reduced. This holds true for
eyes with primary open angle glaucoma, pseudoexfoliation glaucoma and
experimentally induced monkey glaucoma indicating that elevated IOP is involved
in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous CGC-degeneration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2005.09.015 
PMID: 16289045  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2005 Oct;12(5):299-302.

Primary open-angle glaucoma presentation at a tertiary unit in Africa:
intraocular pressure levels and visual status.

Mafwiri M(1), Bowman RJ, Wood M, Kabiru J.

Author information: 
(1)Comprehensive Community Based Rehabilitation in Tanzania, Disability Hospital 
& Muhumbili University College of Health Sciences, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.

AIM: To investigate the presentation of POAG at a tertiary referral hospital in
East Africa, including intraocular pressures, visual status and management
decisions.
METHODS: Retrospective review of first-time presenters with POAG over a 6-month
period.
RESULTS: Of the 298 patients identified, mean age 57 years (n = 296, range =
14-88, SD = 14), 213 (72%) male, 122 (41%) had normal vision (using WHO better
eye acuity criteria: visual impairment < 6/18, blind < 3/60) at presentation, 87 
(30%) had visual impairment and 86 (29%) were blind. The mean presenting IOP was 
32 mmHg (SD = 11) and 70% of the patients had a cup:disc ratio of 0.8 or worse in
the better eye. Longer disease duration (OR = 1.20, 95% CI 1.04-1.39) and higher 
mean IOP (OR = 1.06, 95% CI 1.02-1.10) were associated with visual impairment or 
blindness. Intraocular pressure showed a negative linear correlation with
presenting logMAR acuity (R(2) = 0.115, SE = 1.30, p < 0.0005). The mean IOP in
eyes that had undergone trabeculectomy (19 mmHg, SD = 8, n = 17) was
significantly (p < 0.0005) lower than that in eyes that had not (34 mmHg, SD =
12, n = 274). The referral rate for trabeculectomy was 158/275 (57%). Male sex
(OR = 2.17, 95% CI 1.0-4.72), higher mean IOP (OR = 1.09, 95% CI 1.05-1.14) and
not being blind (OR = 26.47, 95% CI 9.90-70.78) were associated with surgical
referral. Of the 158 patients, 76 (48%) accepted surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: A high proportion of patients presenting to our unit with POAG are
visually impaired or blind and the higher their presenting IOP the poorer their
visual acuity. Previous trabeculectomy was associated with lower IOPs and
protection from visual impairment and blindness. Further training of clinic staff
towards early surgical referral and investigation of gender barriers is required.

DOI: 10.1080/09286580500180572 
PMID: 16272049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Optometry. 2005 Oct;76(10):600-8.

New thoughts on normal tension glaucoma.

Sowka J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nova Southeastern University, College of Optometry, 3200 South University
Drive, Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33328, USA. jsowka@nova.edu

Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is considered a primary optic neuropathy within the
glaucoma family. Whereas NTG shares many of the same pathologic characteristics
as primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), there are several differences such as
pattern of visual field defect and incidence of disc hemorrhaging. The most
notable difference is that NTG does not manifest a recordable intraocular
pressure (IOP) greater than 21 mmHg. Debate has existed as to whether NTG is a
pressure-sensitive neuropathy and if pressure reduction affects the course of the
disease. Likely, there are aspects in the pathophysiology of NTG that are both
pressure sensitive and insensitive, and the etiology of NTG has never been
adequately explained.

DOI: 10.1016/j.optm.2005.08.020 
PMID: 16230276  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


514. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2005 Jun;28 Spec No 2:2S25-2S30.

[Practical assessment. Clinical evaluation of normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Valtot F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut du glaucome, Fondation Hôpital Saint-Joseph, 185, rue Raymond
Losserand, F-75014 Paris.

Normal-tension glaucoma is a form of primary open-angle glaucoma where the
intraocular pressure remains within the normal range. The progression of the
disease is usually very slow. The main challenge is to establish the correct
diagnosis, with a double risk: the patient might have undetected (and untreated) 
high intraocular pressure or, the patient might have a nonglaucomatous (possibly 
treatable) disease looking as a glaucomatous optic neuropathy. The clinical
evaluation of the patient suspected of a normal-tension glaucoma must answer two 
questions: 1) is the intraocular pressure normal?, 2) is it a glaucomatous optic 
neuropathy or another type of optic neuropathy?


PMID: 16208237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Eye (Lond). 2007 Jan;21(1):40-5. Epub 2005 Sep 30.

Role of early trabeculectomy in primary open-angle glaucoma in the developing
world.

Anand A(1), Negi S, Khokhar S, Kumar H, Gupta SK, Murthy GV, Sharma TK.

Author information: 
(1)Dr RP Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, All India Institute of Medical Sciences,
New Delhi 110029, India. aasshishanand@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The lack of prospective data comparing early surgery and medical
management in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in the developing world led us
to conduct a small randomised controlled clinical trial to evaluate acceptance
and effectiveness of early trabeculectomy in these patients.
METHODS: A total of 60 patients with moderately advanced POAG were randomised
into three groups (Group I-Conventional medical management, Group II-Option for
early trabeculectomy, Group III-Received an educational package about their
disease before an option for early trabeculectomy). The patients were followed up
for a period of 6 months for visual acuity, intraocular pressures (IOP), and
subjective satisfaction.
RESULTS: The three study groups were statistically similar with respect to mean
IOP, demographic, and socio-economic profile. 35% of the patients accepted early 
surgery when offered a choice between early surgery and medical management in one
of the groups. 65% of patients in another group expressed willingness for an
early surgery after receiving health education on glaucoma. The mean IOP in the
operated eyes was lower than the medically treated eyes at 2 weeks (16.6 vs 23.0 
mmHg), 6 months (18.5 vs 22.8 mmHg), and 1-year review (17.9 vs 22.3 mmHg)
(P<0.001). No significant difference was seen among the groups with regard to
visual acuity and subjective satisfaction.
CONCLUSION: There is a reasonable acceptance of early surgery in POAG patients in
the developing world and increases on educating patients about their disease.
Early surgery offers better IOP control with no long-term subjective adverse
effects.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702114 
PMID: 16200053  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Can Fam Physician. 2005 Sep;51:1229-37.

Chronic open-angle glaucoma. Review for primary care physicians.

Adatia FA(1), Damji KF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Toronto, Ontario.

INTRODUCTION: Chronic open-angle glaucoma (COAG) is a leading cause of
irreversible blindness worldwide, including in Canada. It presents a challenge in
diagnosis, as disease often progresses without symptoms; an estimated 50% of
cases are undetected.
SOURCES OF INFORMATION: MEDLINE searches, reference lists of articles, and expert
knowledge from one of the authors (K.F.D.), a glaucoma specialist, were used.
MAIN MESSAGE: A casefinding approach using early referral to optometrists and
ophthalmologists for early detection of COAG is helpful for patients with risk
factors such as age above 50, a positive family history, black race, and myopia. 
Moderate evidence for referral also exists for the following risk factors:
hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, and sleep apnea.
Treatment with intraocular pressure-lowering medication can arrest or slow the
course of the disease, permitting patients to retain good visual function. Family
physicians should be aware that some intraocular pressure-lowering medications,
particularly topical beta-blockers, can pose iatrogenic harm to patients and
result in or exacerbate such conditions as asthma, cardiovascular disturbances,
depression, and sexual dysfunction.
CONCLUSION: Appropriate referral patterns and an understanding of common as well 
as serious side effects of glaucoma medications are important in optimizing
management of patients at risk of developing, or who have, COAG.


PMCID: PMC1479464
PMID: 16190176  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Exp Eye Res. 2006 Jan;82(1):5-12. Epub 2005 Sep 26.

The emerging role of proteases in retinal ganglion cell death.

Chintala SK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Eye Research Institute of Oakland University, 409 Dodge Hall, Rochester, MI
48309, USA. chintala@oakland.edu

Retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death is an important issue in Primary Open
Angle-Glaucoma (POAG) in terms of both vision loss and health care costs. Yet,
the pathophysiology underlying RGC death in glaucoma is unclear. A growing body
of evidence indicates that proteases that modulate the extracellular matrix (ECM)
milieu in the retina, either directly or indirectly, play an important role in
dictating the fate of RGCs. Recent evidence indicates that proteases, in addition
to ECM-remodeling, have broader functional roles in glutamate receptor processing
and predisposing RGCs to secondary damage. This review is focused on discussing
the role of two groups of proteases, the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and the
plasminogen activators (PAs), in RGC death. In a long-run, a better understanding
of the mechanisms involved in the regulation of proteases may lead to the
development of adjunctive treatment options to attenuate RGC death and improve
vision loss in glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2005.07.013 
PMID: 16185688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Can J Ophthalmol. 2005 Aug;40(4):477-86.

Screening for primary open-angle glaucoma in the developed world: are we there
yet?

Harasymowycz P(1), Kamdeu Fansi A, Papamatheakis D.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital Maisonneuve-Rosemont, Centre de Recherche Guy-Bernier, Université de
Montréal, Department of Ophthalmology, Que. pavloh@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: In 1995, the Quebec Agency for Health Services and Technology
Assessment (AETMIS) stated that a formal screening program for primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) could not be recommended for the province of Quebec, owing to "a 
high degree of uncertainty and because of the high cost such a program would
entail." The purpose of this article was to evaluate the possibility of
instituting a POAG screening program in light of recent advances in the diagnosis
and treatment of glaucoma.
METHODS: We reviewed new developments that have occurred since the mid to late
1990s in the field of glaucoma. Changes that could positively influence the
feasibility and organization of future glaucoma screening programs were
identified.
RESULTS: New technologies, including confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (HRT 
II), optical coherence tomography (Stratus OCT), and scanning laser polarimetry
with variable corneal compensation (GDx-VCC), permit early detection of optic
nerve and nerve fibre layer structural damage. Together with advanced
psychophysical tests (frequency doubling perimetry and short wavelength automated
perimetry) for earlier detection of functional damage, they provide an increased 
understanding of the diagnosis and monitoring of POAG. Elevated intraocular
pressure (IOP) remains the most important risk factor for glaucoma. Clinical
trials indicate that lowering IOP at different stages of the disease can arrest
or decrease its rate of progression. Moreover, it is important to assess
pachymetry because IOP measurements are influenced by central corneal thickness. 
Finally, new treatments, such as prostaglandin analogues or selective laser
trabeculoplasty, are safer and may also achieve lower intraocular pressures.
INTERPRETATION: Health policy involves the investment of public resources, and
cost-effectiveness analyses for POAG screening are heavily weighted by the degree
of uncertainty that glaucoma screening can be effectively and reliably achieved. 
The many new developments and advancements outlined herein, combined with the
possible increasing prevalence of POAG, necessitate the re-evaluation of
screening for primary open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1139/i05-020 
PMID: 16116514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Ophthalmol Clin North Am. 2005 Sep;18(3):409-19, vi.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty.

Latina MA(1), de Leon JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tufts University School of Medicine, 136 Harrison
Avenue, Boston, MA 02111, USA. malatina@comcast.net

Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) has been shown to be safe, well tolerated, 
and effective in intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction as therapy in several forms
of open-angle glaucoma. The preservation of trabecular meshwork (TM) architecture
and the demonstrated efficacy in lowering IOP make SLT a reasonable and safe
alternative to argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT). SLT may also be effective for
cases of failed ALT and is a procedure that may also be repeatable, unlike ALT.
SLT is also a simple technique for an ophthalmologist to learn as the large spot 
size eliminates the need to locate a particular zone of treatment on the TM. SLT 
has been demonstrated to be effective as primary treatment for open angle
glaucoma and can be an effective adjunct in the early treatment of glaucoma.
Furthermore, SLT can be considered as a primary treatment option in patients who 
cannot tolerate or who are noncompliant with their glaucoma medications, without 
interfering with the success of future surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ohc.2005.05.005 
PMID: 16054998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Ophthalmol Clin North Am. 2005 Sep;18(3):355-64, v.

Pathophysiology of the progressive optic neuropathy of glaucoma.

Levin LA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Wisconsin
Medical School, 600 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53792, USA.

Glaucoma is the most common chronic optic neuropathy. Although traditionally
considered a disease of elevated intraocular pressure, it is now clear that
glaucoma is primarily a distinctive optic neuropathy. This article discusses the 
distinctive features of glaucoma: disk morphology, visual field patterns, and
disease progression. The primary goal is to distinguish glaucoma from other optic
neuropathies and, in so doing, to suggest some hypotheses for its etiology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ohc.2005.05.010 
PMID: 16054993  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 2005;(296):71-81.

Emergencies in glaucoma: a review.

Collignon NJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, CHU Sart-Tilman, 4000 Liège, Belgique.
nathalie.collignon@chu.ulg.ac.be

Most severe eye diseases and injuries ultimately require intervention by an
ophthalmologist. The urgency of referral depends on various factors, including
level of vision loss, duration of symptoms, and presence of comorbid diseases. Of
special importance are five acute eye problems in which emergency management by
primary care physicians can be critical to visual outcome: high-velocity
injuries, chemical injuries, acute angle-closure glaucoma, arteritic ischemic
optic neuropathy, and central retinal artery occlusion. This paper will focus on 
emergencies in glaucoma, especially primary and secondary closed-angle glaucoma
and secondary open-angle glaucoma. Delay in presentation, and unresponsiveness to
medical treatment of the acute ocular hypertension attack carry a significant
risk of chronic glaucoma, whatever the mechanism of disease is. Whenever the
acute glaucoma crisis does not cease with an appropriate medical treatment, a
laser and/or surgical intervention needs to be urged.


PMID: 16050422  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Can J Ophthalmol. 2005 Apr;40(2):161-9.

Intraocular pressure control and persistence on treatment in glaucoma and ocular 
hypertension.

Tingey D(1), Bernard LM, Grima DT, Miller B, Lam A.

Author information: 
(1)University of Western Ontario and Ivey Institute of Ophthalmology, St.
Joseph's Health Centre, London, Ont.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to characterize current patterns of
treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension and to examine the effect of those 
patterns on intraocular pressure (IOP) control and persistence on therapy.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was conducted at 3 ophthalmology practices 
in Alberta. Data were collected for patients who had begun therapy for newly
diagnosed primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension between May 1, 1998,
and Sept. 30, 1999 (phase 1), and for patients who had begun second-line therapy 
after initial therapy with a beta-blocker had failed (phase 2). Data were
collected for a minimum of 24 months for phase 1 and a minimum of 18 months for
phase 2.
RESULTS: We included 115 patient charts in phase 1 and 93 in phase 2. In each
phase, the patients for whom latanoprost had been prescribed in unfixed
combination with a beta-blocker had the greatest mean percentage reduction in IOP
at month 24, and the patients for whom latanoprost had been prescribed alone or
in combination with a beta-blocker were more likely to still be on initial
therapy at month 24; the difference in persistence on therapy was statistically
significant only in phase 1 (p = 0.001). The mean number of switches in therapy
was smaller in phase 1 than in phase 2 in all therapy groups.
INTERPRETATION: Compared with other first- and second-line forms of therapy,
treatment with latanoprost, alone or in combination with a beta-blocker, was
associated with greater reductions in IOP, better therapeutic persistence, fewer 
therapy switches and fewer ophthalmologist visits over a 2-year period.

DOI: 10.1016/S0008-4182(05)80027-4 
PMID: 16049529  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


523. J Glaucoma. 2005 Aug;14(4):308-10.

Trabecular meshwork and uveoscleral outflow models.

Johnson DH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA. Douglas.Johnson@mayo.edu

PURPOSE: To describe current laboratory models used to study aqueous outflow.
Because development of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is rare in animals, no 
animal model of POAG is available for laboratory study on the pathogenesis of
this condition. This review will discuss the alternative models used in the
laboratory to study aqueous outflow.
METHODS: This is a brief review of published techniques, with commentary upon
advantages and limitations of each.
RESULTS: Whole eyes and anterior segments are useful in assessing aqueous outflow
resistance and anatomical changes in the meshwork. They have a limited duration
of viability. Cell cultures are less expensive, easier to obtain, provide more
cells than in intact meshwork, and are excellent in studying cellular physiology.
The artificial environment of cell culture, however, including the plastic dish
or artificial substrate and also the requirement of serum supplements, may limit 
applicability. Modern understanding of cells, their interaction with the
extracellular matrix, and sensitivity to the composition of culture media suggest
that these laboratory models should be updated to more closely mimic the in vivo 
situation.
CONCLUSION: Outflow models are a useful beginning in the study of cellular
physiology, cell-extracellular matrix interactions, and reactions of the whole
meshwork. All have limitations, however; the development of an animal model of
human POAG would be an ideal solution to many of the current limitations.


PMID: 15990614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Exp Eye Res. 2005 Jul;81(1):1-4.

Morphological changes in glaucomatous eyes and the role of TGFbeta2 for the
pathogenesis of the disease.

Lütjen-Drecoll E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Universitätsstr. 19,
D-91054 Erlangen, Germany. drecoll@anatomie2@med.unierlangen.de

This review summarizes the Ernst H. Bárány Prize Lecture given at the XVI.
meeting 2004 of the International Society of Eye Research in Sydney, Australia.
The article describes the author's early studies starting with the determination 
of the site of aqueous humour outflow resistance and its regulation through
ciliary muscle contraction, which were performed in collaborations with Bárány.
It continues with the qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the trabecular
meshwork (TM) changes seen in different kinds of glaucoma diseases. A comparison 
of correlations between meshwork pathology, IOP, and axon loss in the optic nerve
between eyes with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEXG) and primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG) indicates that in the secondary glaucoma (PEXG) optic neuropathy 
is mainly induced by an increase in IOP. In eyes with POAG, the correlations
point towards a more complex pathogenesis of the disease. Common factors might be
involved in both the TM and the optic nerve changes. In vitro studies performed
in cell cultures of human TM cells and optic nerve astrocytes as well as organ
culture studies of the anterior eye segment indicate that TGFbeta2 might be one
of the factors involved in the development of POAG. The paper is primarily
focused on studies performed by the author and complete reference to other
previous or contemporary studies is therefore not given as the purpose is not to 
present a comprehensive review article.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2005.02.008 
PMID: 15978248  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Ophthalmology. 2005 Jun;112(6):980-4.

Visualization of anterior chamber angle dynamics using optical coherence
tomography.

Leung CK(1), Chan WM, Ko CY, Chui SI, Woo J, Tsang MK, Tse RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Caritas Medical Centre, Hong Kong, China.
tlims00@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To describe the technology of optical coherence tomography (OCT) in
imaging the anterior chamber angles and its impact on understanding the
pathophysiology of angle-closure glaucoma (ACG).
DESIGN: Observational case series.
PARTICIPANTS: Three subjects with, respectively, impending angle-closure attack, 
plateau iris syndrome, and phacomorphic glaucoma were recruited.
METHODS: The anterior chamber angle in each patient was imaged with a
commercially available OCT unit. The angle configurations were assessed and
compared before and after laser peripheral iridotomy (LPI) and argon laser
peripheral iridoplasty (ALPI).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Visualization of the changes in the anterior chamber angle
configurations and normalization of the intraocular pressure (IOP).
RESULTS: A patient with impending angle-closure attack precipitated by a topical 
mydriatic agent was treated with LPI. Optical coherence tomography imaging of the
anterior chamber angles was performed before and after the laser procedure.
Conversion of anterior iris bowing and angle crowding to iris straightening and
angle opening after LPI was demonstrated. Intraocular pressure became normalized 
with the change in angle configuration. The second patient presented with
symptoms of intermittent angle-closure attacks and was initially diagnosed with
primary ACG. Despite successful LPI, the angles remained occludable, and the IOP 
continued to be elevated. Optical coherence tomography was used to review the
anterior chamber angle configuration and demonstrated a typical pattern
compatible with the diagnosis of plateau iris syndrome. Subsequent ALPI converted
the plateau configuration to open angle, with normalization of IOP and
disappearance of symptoms. The third patient presented with an acute
angle-closure attack and was diagnosed with phacomorphic glaucoma. Argon laser
peripheral iridoplasty was performed successfully to open the angle, as evident
by the OCT images, and the IOP was brought under control, together with relief of
symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: The commercially available OCT unit can be practically employed for 
anterior chamber angle imaging. The different patterns of angle configurations
are correlated with the underlying pathophysiology in different forms of ACG.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2005.01.022 
PMID: 15936438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Acta Med Croatica. 2005;59(2):123-8.

[Clinical approach to normal intraocular pressure glaucoma].

[Article in Croatian]

Cerovski B(1), Popović Suić S, Bujger Z, Miljenka T, Cerovski J.

Author information: 
(1)Klinika za ocne bolesti Medicinlskog fakulteta u Zagrebu, Klinicki bolnicki
centar Zagreb, Zagreb, Hrvatska, Croatia.

Normal intraocular pressure (IOP) glaucoma is a clinical condition characterized 
by pathologic optic nerve excavation and visual field impairment, defined as
optic neuropathy with certain features of a disease known as glaucoma.
Glaucomatous optic nerve lesion is characterized by optic disk excavation or
depression, however, this feature may greatly vary. The level of IOP is
considered only one of the multiple risk factors involved in the disease
development. In normal IOP glaucoma, papillary lesions and visual field
impairments may differ from those occurring in primary open-angle glaucoma. In
modern ophthalmology, the terminology has been modified, so the term low IOP
glaucoma has been replaced by the term normal IOP glaucoma. It is now believed
that various factors play a role in the development of glaucomatous optic
neuropathy in normal IOP glaucoma and show variable interference depending on IOP
level. Additional studies are needed to define these interactions and their
impact on the mechanism of glaucomatous excavation. This will hopefully pave the 
way to new therapeutic approaches and help in clinical decisions concerning the
prognosis and treatment of individual patients.


PMID: 15909886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


527. J Indian Med Assoc. 2004 Dec;102(12):708, 710, 712 passim.

Genetics and bioinformatics of primary open angle glaucoma: an Indian
perspective.

Ray K(1), Thakur SK, Banerjee AK, Mukhopadhyay A, Acharya M, Bhattacharjee A, Sen
A, Bhaduri G.

Author information: 
(1)Human Genetics and Genomics Division, Indian Institute of Chemical Biology,
Kolkata 700 032.

Glaucoma is the second largest blinding disorder, after cataract, affecting about
67 million people worldwide. In India about 1.5 million people are blind due to
glaucoma. Primary open angle glaucoma is the major sub-type of glaucoma affecting
all ages and is genetically complex. Myocilin and optineurin are two different
genes that have been implicated for primary open angle glaucoma. This review is
focused on the studies being conducted in India on primary open angle glaucoma to
identify the molecular defects and new directions undertaken using bioinformatic 
approaches towards a better understanding of the disease.


PMID: 15871358  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2005 Apr 18;(2):CD004399.

Medical versus surgical interventions for open angle glaucoma.

Burr J(1), Azuara-Blanco A, Avenell A.

Author information: 
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill Lea,
Aberdeen, UK, AB 2ZD25. j.m.burr@abdn.ac.uk

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;9:CD004399.

BACKGROUND: Open angle glaucoma (OAG) is the commonest cause of irreversible
blindness worldwide.
OBJECTIVES: To study the relative effects of medical and surgical treatment of
OAG.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
(The Cochrane Library Issue 1, 2005), MEDLINE (1966 to February 2005), EMBASE
(1988 to February 2005), and reference lists of articles. We also contacted
researchers in the field.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials comparing medications to surgery
in adults.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently assessed trial quality
and extracted data. We contacted trial investigators for missing information.
MAIN RESULTS: Four trials involving 888 participants with previously untreated
OAG were included. Surgery was Scheie's procedure in one trial and trabeculectomy
in three trials. In three trials, primary medication was usually pilocarpine, in 
one trial a beta-blocker. In the most recent trial, participants with mild OAG,
progressive visual field (VF) loss, after adjustment for cataract surgery, was
not significantly different for medications compared to trabeculectomy (Odds
ratio (OR) 0.74; 95% CI 0.54 to 1.01). Reduction of vision, with a higher risk of
developing cataract (OR 2.69, 95%% CI 1.64 to 4.42), and more patient discomfort 
was more likely with trabeculectomy than medication. There is some evidence, from
three trials, for people with moderately advanced glaucoma that medication is
associated with more progressive VF loss and 6 to 8 mmHg less intraocular
pressure (IOP) lowering than surgery, either by a Scheie's procedure or
trabeculectomy. There was a trend towards an increased risk of failed IOP control
over time for initial pilocarpine treatment compared to trabeculectomy. In the
longer-term (two trials) the risk of failure was significantly greater with
medication than trabeculectomy (OR 3.90, 95% CI 1.60 to 9.53; HR 7.27, 95% CI
2.23 to 25.71). Medicine and surgery have evolved since these trials were
undertaken, and additionally the evidence is potentially subject to detection and
attrition bias.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Evidence from one trial suggests, for mild OAG, that VF
deterioration up to five-years is not significantly different whether treatment
is initiated with medication or trabeculectomy. Reduced vision, cataract and eye 
discomfort are more likely with trabeculectomy. There is some evidence, for more 
severe OAG, that initial medication (pilocarpine, now rarely used as first line
medication) is associated with greater VF deterioration than surgery. In general,
surgery lowers IOP more than medication. There was no evidence to determine the
effectiveness of contemporary medication (prostaglandin analogues,
alpha2-agonists and topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors) compared to surgery in
severe OAG, and in people of black African ethnic origin who have a greater risk 
of more severe open angle glaucoma. More research is required.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004399.pub2 
PMID: 15846712  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Drugs Aging. 2005;22(4):315-21.

The economic burden of glaucoma and ocular hypertension: implications for patient
management: a review.

Rouland JF(1), Berdeaux G, Lafuma A.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, Hôpital Claude Huriez, Lille, France.

This paper reviews the burden and economic consequences of glaucoma upon
healthcare systems and patients, especially elderly patients. An extensive review
of the literature was conducted, primarily using MEDLINE, but also by examining
selected article reference lists, relevant websites and the proceedings of
specialised conferences. All relevant articles and documents were analysed.
Glaucoma is characterised by destruction of the optic nerve. It is most often a
continuous, chronic eye disease and the most frequent diagnosis is primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG). POAG is mostly associated with intraocular hypertension
which can be delayed by medication, surgery or laser therapy. The prevalence rate
of glaucoma is about 1% in the population >50 years of age. The rate increases
with age and is higher in Black and Hispanic populations. Glaucoma affects more
than 67 million people worldwide. Cost-of-illness studies have shown the
importance of this disease, on which more than pound300 million was spent in the 
UK in 2002. Most of the costs (45%) were associated with direct medical costs,
but direct nonmedical costs (20%) and indirect costs (35%) were also not
negligible. Recent economic studies have shown a dramatic increase in the number 
of patients with glaucoma receiving treatment but a reduction in use of surgical 
procedures to treat the condition, especially as first-line therapy. The greater 
part of medical expenditure is now on medication, with new, more potent, better
tolerated, but more costly drugs replacing older and less expensive medications. 
Treatment costs are directly related to the severity of disease and the number of
different treatments used; they are also negatively correlated with treatment
efficacy in reducing intraocular pressure. However, long-term economic benefits
that may be associated with use of more potent new drugs (by delaying
institutionalisation) have never been documented. Glaucoma screening has also
been found not to be cost effective, although these results should be
reconsidered in the light of new data.


PMID: 15839720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Clin Ther. 2004 Dec;26(12):2102-20.

Gold standard medical therapy for glaucoma: defining the criteria identifying
measures for an evidence-based analysis.

Obstbaum SA(1), Cioffi GA, Krieglstein GK, Fennerty MB, Alm A, Araie M, Carassa
RG, Greve EL, Hitchings RA, Kaufman PL, Kitazawa Y, Pongpun PR, Susanna R Jr, Wax
MB, Zimmerman TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, New York University School of Medicine and Lenox 
Hill Hospital, New York, NY, USA. saobstbaum@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Over the past decade, several new medical therapies have become
available for the treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). A systematic
evidence-based approach for identifying an optimal therapeutic agent is lacking.
OBJECTIVES: The aims of this review were to critically evaluate published
treatment recommendations for POAG and, based on a systematic review of the
literature, to develop criteria that would define a "gold standard" medical
therapy that reflects new treatment advances and established therapeutic goals.
METHODS: A MEDLINE search spanning the years 1966 to 2002 and using the search
terms gold standard, drug of choice, agent of choice, benchmark, ophthalmology,
eye, and glaucoma was conducted and the results reviewed by a panel of 15 experts
in the field of glaucoma. Published treatment recommendations for POAG were
discussed. Criteria, anchored to medical evidence, for distinguishing a standard 
of medical therapy for POAG were defined.
RESULTS: The terms connoting a gold standard therapy were found in only 258 of
approximately 368,000 ophthalmology-related citations and 53 of almost 23,000
glaucoma citations, validating the need to define therapeutic standards. The lack
of recommendations for the use of new classes of ocular hypotensive agents was
acknowledged. Criteria identified to evaluate intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering
agents as gold standards included the following: efficacy in reducing IOP
consistently over a 24-hour period to a level that will preserve the visual field
and protect the optic nerve without inducing tachyphylaxis and tolerance, paucity
of local and systemic adverse effects, promotion of patient compliance, and
applicability in diverse patient populations.
CONCLUSIONS: These criteria should be employed as measures for evidence-based
analyses to evaluate available and future IOP-lowering medical therapies for
POAG. The conceptual framework presented may be applicable to other therapeutic
areas.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clintera.2004.12.007 
PMID: 15823774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


531. BMC Ophthalmol. 2005 Apr 5;5:7.

Is post-trabeculectomy hypotony a risk factor for subsequent failure? A case
control study.

Benson SE(1), Mandal K, Bunce CV, Fraser SG.

Author information: 
(1)Sunderland Eye Infirmary, Queen Alexandra Road, Sunderland, SR2 9HP, UK.
sarah.benson@moorfields.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Ocular hypotony results in an increased break down of the
blood-aqueous barrier and an increase in inflammatory mediator release. We
postulate that this release may lead to an increased risk of trabeculectomy
failure through increased bleb scarring. This study was designed to try to
address the question if hypotony within one month of trabeculectomy for Primary
Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG), is a risk factor for future failure of the filter.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective, case notes review, of patients who
underwent trabeculectomy for POAG between Jan 1995 and Jan 1996 at our hospital. 
We identified those with postoperative hypotony within 1 month of surgery.
Hypotony was defined as an intraocular pressure (IOP) < 8 mmHg or an IOP of less 
than 10 mmHg with choroidal detachment or a shallow anterior chamber. We compared
the survival times of the surgery in this group with a control group (who did not
suffer hypotony as described above), over a 5 year period. Failure of
trabeculectomy was defined as IOP > 21 mmHg, or commencement of topical
antihypertensives or repeat surgery.
RESULTS: 97 cases matched our inclusion criteria, of these 38 (39%) experienced
hypotony within 1 month of surgery. We compared the survival times in those
patients who developed hypotony with those who did not using the log-rank test.
This data provided evidence of a difference (P = 0.0492) with patients in the
hypotony group failing more rapidly than the control group.
CONCLUSION: Early post-trabeculectomy hypotony (within 1 month) is associated
with reduced survival time of blebs.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-5-7 
PMCID: PMC1079872
PMID: 15811180  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Ann Fam Med. 2005 Mar-Apr;3(2):167-70.

Screening for primary open-angle glaucoma in the primary care setting: an update 
for the US preventive services task force.

Fleming C(1), Whitlock EP, Beil T, Smit B, Harris RP.

Author information: 
(1)Oregon Evidence-based Practice Center, Kaiser Permanente Center for Health
Research, Portland 97227, USA. craig.fleming@kp.org

PURPOSE: Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause of blindness and
vision-related disability. This review examines the effectiveness of screening
for and treatment of early POAG in asymptomatic persons.
METHODS: We identified studies of glaucoma screening and treatment from MEDLINE, 
the Cochrane Library, and glaucoma experts. Two reviewers abstracted relevant
studies and graded articles according to US Preventive Services Task Force
criteria.
RESULTS: No randomized, controlled trials of population screening for POAG have
been reported. Two randomized controlled trials compared the efficacy of
treatment to lower intraocular pressure with no treatment for persons who have
early primary open-angle glaucoma. In a Swedish trial, treatment reduced
progression at 5 years from 62% without treatment to 45% with treatment (absolute
risk reduction [ARR] 17%, number needed to treat 5.8, P = .007). In a US trial of
patients with early POAG and normal intraocular pressure, progression at 5 years 
was observed in 39% of those without treatment and 33% of those with treatment (P
= .21). The benefit of delaying progression of visual field loss on
vision-related function in patients with early POAG is unclear. The principal
harm of treatment is loss of visual acuity resulting from an increased risk of
cataract formation.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment to lower intraocular pressure may delay progression of
visual field deficits in some asymptomatic individuals with early POAG. Further
studies of population screening are needed to show that early recognition and
treatment of glaucoma in asymptomatic patients are effective in improving
vision-specific functional outcomes and health-related quality of life.

DOI: 10.1370/afm.293 
PMCID: PMC1466856
PMID: 15798044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2005 Apr 1;62(7):691-9.

Glaucoma and its treatment: a review.

Lee DA(1), Higginbotham EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Storm Eye Institute, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC
29425, USA. leedav@musc.edu

Comment in
    Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2005 Oct 1;62(19):1979; author reply 1979.

PURPOSE: A review of glaucoma and its treatment is presented.
SUMMARY: Glaucoma is a common eye disease that can cause irreversible blindness
if left undiagnosed and untreated. Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness in
the United States and other industrialized countries. In most cases, the symptoms
of early-stage glaucoma are minimal or nonexistent. There are several different
types of glaucoma, and they have been classically divided into the categories of 
primary or secondary open-angle or angle-closure glaucoma. Secondary forms of
glaucoma are caused by various ocular or systemic diseases. Every available
treatment to prevent progressive glaucomatous optic neuropathy has potential
adverse effects and involves a certain amount of risk and financial expense.
Conventional first-line treatment of glaucoma usually begins with the use of a
topical selective or nonselective beta-blocker or a topical prostaglandin analog.
Second-line drugs of choice include alpha-agonists and topical carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors. Parasympathomimetic agents, most commonly pilocarpine, are considered
third-line treatment options. For patients who do not respond to antiglaucoma
medications, laser trabeculoplasty and incisional surgery are further methods
that can be used to lower intraocular pressure. The results of clinical trials
have reaffirmed the utility of antiglaucoma medications in slowing the
progression of the disease.
CONCLUSION: Glaucoma is a common eye disease that is usually associated with an
elevated intraocular pressure. Treatment options for patients with glaucoma
include medications, laser therapy, and incisional surgery. The risks and
benefits of each type of treatment must be carefully considered to maximize the
treatment's benefits while minimizing adverse effects.


PMID: 15790795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Med J Malaysia. 2004 Oct;59(4):562-8, quiz 569.

Age related visual impairment in the elderly.

Loh KY(1), Ogle J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family Medicine, International Medical University Malaysia,
Seremban, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia.

Visual impairment among the elderly is a major health problem. With advancing
age, the normal function of eye tissues decreases and there is an increased
incidence of ocular pathology. Demographic studies have shown that age is the
best predictor of blindness and visual impairment. The most common causes of age 
related visual impairment in the elderly are presbyopia, cataracts, age related
macular degeneration, primary open angle glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy.
Untreated visual impairment leads to physical handicap, increased incidence of
fall, depression, social isolation and dependency. Active screening for visual
loss in the elderly should be part of the health examination. The elderly should 
be encouraged to come for formal 1-2 yearly eye assessment for early detection of
visual impairment and to treat all associated problems in order to prevent
permanent visual loss.


PMID: 15779599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2005 Apr;16(2):114-21.

Compliance and persistency in glaucoma follow-up treatment.

Schwartz GF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Consultants, Greater Baltimore Medical Center, Wilmer Eye Institute, 
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21204, USA. schwartzgf@aol.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To summarize research published between 1980 and October 2004 
regarding compliance (the extent to which patients' behaviors correspond with
providers' recommendations) and persistency (total time on therapy) in patients
diagnosed with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension; to suggest approaches 
ophthalmologists might consider to improve compliance and persistency; and to
identify areas warranting future research.
RECENT FINDINGS: Medication compliance, the focus of most compliance-related
research, has been measured using a variety of methods including patient
self-reports, the medication possession ratio, and electronic monitoring.
Noncompliance rates of at least 25% commonly have been reported. The primary
obstacles to medication compliance appear to be situational/environmental (e.g., 
being away from home or a change in routine) or related to the medication regimen
(e.g., side effects or complexity). Persistency with ocular hypotensive therapies
has been found to be poor. Retrospective cohort studies using survival analyses
have reported that fewer than 25% of patients are persistent over 12 months.
SUMMARY: Accurately assessing patient compliance and persistency is important to 
optimizing patient care. Physicians may mistake either medication noncompliance
or lack of persistency with poor efficacy. Such errors would likely increase
health care costs if they result in unnecessary changes to a patient's
therapeutic regimen or in surgery.


PMID: 15744142  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Med J Malaysia. 2004 Aug;59(3):378-83.

Trabeculectomy--a review and 2 year follow up.

Jaais F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Malaya Medical Center, Faculty of
Medicine, 50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

This study reviewed the trabeculectomies (TEs) carried out in University Malaya
Medical Center between 1994 to 1998. One hundred and nine of 132 eyes operated
were in the primary glaucoma group of which 63 (47.7%) were of the open angle
type and 46 (34.8%) were of the angle closure type. Twenty-three eyes belong to
the secondary glaucoma group. Sixty-five eyes had plain or non-augmented
trabeculectomy (TE) while 20 were augmented with mitomycin C (MMC) and 11 with 5 
flourouracil (5FU). In 31 eyes the plain TEs were combined with extracapsular
cataract extraction (ECCE) and 4 with phacoemusification. One case had combined
ECCE and augmented trabeculectomy with mitomycin-C. The patients were followed up
at 1 month, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years. Ninety-four of 132 (71.2%) eyes had
successful surgery with intraocular pressure (IOP) of less than 21 mmHg
(tonometric success) at the end of 2 years. Four of these patients needed topical
medication for the IOP control. More failures were seen in patients with cystic
blebs than those with diffuse blebs. Complications include hypotony, shallow
anterior chamber, cataracts and hyphaema. The majority of cases (53%) had no
complications.


PMID: 15727384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2004 Dec;52(4):271-80.

A review of genetic and structural understanding of the role of myocilin in
primary open angle glaucoma.

Kanagavalli J(1), Pandaranayaka E, Krishnadas SR, Krishnaswamy S, Sundaresan P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Aravind Eye Hospital, Madurai.

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is the most common form of glaucoma and the
second leading cause of blindness in the world. Discovery of the candidate gene
MYOC (TIGR/MYOC) encoding the protein myocilin, believed to have a role in
cytoskeletal function, might play a key role in understanding the pathogenesis of
POAG. MYOC is expressed in many ocular tissues, including trabecular meshwork
(TM), a specialised eye tissue essential in regulating intraocular pressure
(IOP). Later it was shown to be the trabecular meshwork inducible-glucocorticoid 
response protein (TIGR). Mutations in MYOC have been identified as the cause of
hereditary juvenile-onset open-angle glaucoma (JOAG). The unprocessed myocilin
with signal peptide is a 55-kDa protein with 504 amino acids. Mature myocilin is 
known to form multimers. Wild type myocilin protein is normally secreted into the
trabecular extracellular matrix (ECM) and there appears to interact with various 
ECM materials. It is believed that the deposition of high amounts of myocilin in 
trabecular ECM could affect aqueous outflow either by physical barrier and/or
through cell-mediated process leading to elevation of IOP. The N-terminal region 
of the myocilin has sequence similarity to myosin (muscle protein) and the
C-terminal of the protein has an olfactomedin-like domain. Structural and genetic
studies of the MYOC gene and its protein product along with molecular modeling
could lead to better understanding of the pathogenesis of POAG. This review
highlights the current understanding of myocilin and the relevance of genetic and
structural work.


PMID: 15693317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Drugs Aging. 2005;22(1):1-21.

Management of glaucoma: focus on pharmacological therapy.

Marquis RE(1), Whitson JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center at Dallas, Texas 75390-9057, USA.

Glaucoma represents a major cause of vision loss throughout the world. Primary
open-angle glaucoma, the most common form of glaucoma, is a chronic, progressive 
disease often, though not always, accompanied by elevated intraocular pressure
(IOP). In this disorder, retinal ganglion cell loss and excavation of the optic
nerve head produce characteristic peripheral visual field deficits. Patients with
normal-tension glaucoma present with typical visual field and optic nerve head
changes, without a documented history of elevated IOP. A variety of secondary
causes, such as pigment dispersion syndrome and ocular trauma, can result in
glaucoma as well. Treatment of all forms of glaucoma consists of reducing IOP.
With proper treatment, progression of this disease can often be delayed or
prevented. Treatment options for glaucoma include medications, laser therapy and 
incisional surgery. Laser techniques for the reduction of IOP include argon laser
trabeculoplasty and selective laser trabeculoplasty. Both techniques work by
increasing outflow of aqueous humour through the trabecular meshwork. Surgical
options for glaucoma treatment include trabeculectomy, glaucoma drainage tube
implantation and ciliary body cyclodestruction. While each of these types of
procedures is effective at lowering IOP, therapy usually begins with medications.
Medications lower IOP either by reducing the production or by increasing the rate
of outflow of aqueous humour within the eye. Currently, there are five major
classes of drugs used for the treatment of glaucoma: (i) cholinergics
(acetylcholine receptor agonists); (ii) adrenoceptor agonists; (iii) carbonic
anhydrase inhibitors (CAIs); (iv) beta-adrenoceptor antagonists; and (v)
prostaglandin analogues (PGAs). Treatment typically begins with the selection of 
an agent for IOP reduction. Although beta-adrenoceptor antagonists are still
commonly used by many clinicians, the PGAs are playing an increasingly important 
role in the first-line therapy of glaucoma. Adjunctive agents, such as
alpha-adrenoceptor agonists and CAIs are often effective at providing additional 
reduction in IOP for patients not controlled on monotherapy. As with any chronic 
disease, effective treatment depends on minimising the adverse effects of therapy
and maximising patient compliance. The introduction of a variety of well
tolerated and potent medications over the past few years now allows the clinician
to choose a treatment regimen on an individual patient basis and thereby treat
this disorder more effectively.


PMID: 15663346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2004 Dec;108(12):836-61; discussion 862.

[A new approach for studying the retinal and choroidal circulation].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoneya S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Saitama Medical School, Iruma-gun, Japan.

One advantage of advanced computer technology is the high throughput with which
the retinal and the choroidal circulation can be evaluated from new aspects. To
study the choroidal circulation, we first reevaluated indocyanine green video
angiography to improve the visualization of indocyanine green (ICG) images, then 
applied computer technology to analyze images obtained by an ICG video camera
system. We also developed a new instrument to measure oxygen saturation levels in
the fundus using spectral retinal imaging technology. I. Choroidal circulation.
1. Reevaluation of ICG video camera system: For this purpose, the bio-chemical
nature of ICG was studied. 1) Spectral absorption of ICG: The peak absorption of 
ICG in distilled water was 780 nm as measured with a spectrophotometer. Its
maximum absorption shifted from 780 nm to 805 nm after gradually mixing ICG with 
human serum protein. Conjugation time of ICG as well as fluorescein sodium with
human serum protein was then measured by a stopped flowmeter. It was found that
fluorescein sodium conjugated with human serum protein within a few milliseconds,
while ICG required more than 600 seconds before equilibrium of the binding was
reached. From these observations, we developed a new ICG video system with dual
light sources; one, a 780 nm diode laser for the early dye filling phase, and the
other, a 805 nm diode laser for the later phase of ICG angiography. 2) Binding
properties of ICG in human blood: Blood samples were obtained from three healthy 
volunteers after intravenous administration of ICG. The resulting plasma samples 
were fractionated by agarose gel immunoelectrophoresis and polyacrylamide gel
DISC electrophoresis. The electrophoretic pattern obtained by each method was
observed with an ICG fundus video system. We also studied the affinity of ICG for
lipids that are common molecular components of lipoproteins such as high-density 
lipoprotein (HDL) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL). Four kinds of ICG solutions 
mixed with phospholipid, free cholesterol, esterified cholesterol, and
triacrylglycerol were observed with the ICG fundus video system. Both
electrophoretic studies showed that ICG bound intensely to HDL and moderately to 
LDL, and only the solution with phospholipid fluoresced brightly when observed
with the ICG fundus video system. 2. Residual fundus ICG fluorescence: Residual
fundus fluorescence observed in the late phase of ICG angiography may be
delineated differently in normal subjects and in patients with age-related
macular degeneration (ARMD). We performed ICG angiography on 8 normal subjects
aged below 36 years (8 eyes), 9 normal subjects aged above 62 years (9 eyes), and
21 patients with ARMD aged 50 to 88 years (37 eyes). The intensity and pattern of
fluorescence from angiograms obtained in the ultra-late phase, 24 hours after dye
injection, was recorded and analyzed. In the ultra-late phase, 95% of ARMD eyes
with choroidal neovascularization (CNV) showed geographic hypofluorescent
lesions. These hypofluorescent lesions occurred in 73% of ARMD eyes without CN,
while age-matched normal subjects had no hypofluorescent lesions. The mean
intensity of fluorescence in the normal elder subject group was significantly
higher than that seen in the normal younger subject group. These findings may
reflect aging change and bio-distribution of lipid on the Bruch-RPE complex. 3.
The early dye filling pattern of the choroid: We performed ICG angiography on 10 
healthy young volunteers aged 22 to 26 years (23.4+/-1.3; mean+/-standard
deviation) using an improved ICG video camera system. ICG (50 mg) dissolved in 2 
ml in distilled water was injected through the antecubital vein. Although the
choroidal dye filling varied among subjects, it always began in the macular area.
In the 10 subjects, initial dye filling had two patterns: reticular (n=8) and
flush (n=2). The choroidal circulation filled completely before the retinal
circulation did. Bright fluorescence in the macula and fast blood flow may be
correlated with ample blood volume and abundant blood vessels in the macular
area. 4. The spreading pattern of ICG fluorescence in the choroid: The ICG images
obtained for observing the early dye filling pattern of the choroid were further 
processed with a computer-assisted image analyzer. Subtracted images were made
using the early ICG frames with a time interval of 0.12 second. Ninety frames of 
time-sequential images for 3 seconds starting from the initial dye appearance in 
the choroid were prepared to construct an animated image. In the initial phase of
eye filling, patchy fluorescence appeared in the fovea. The fluorescence then
spread centrifugally in all directions in a wave-like pulsatile manner towards
the peripheral fundus with increasing brightness. Thus an animated video of
subtracted images allowed us to evaluate flow dynamics at the level of the
choriocapillaris. Using this new approach, pathogenic involvement of choroidal
circulation in varied chorioretinal diseases such as central serous
chorioretinopathy can be studied with precision. II. Retinal circulation. We
developed a new device to study the oxygen saturation (OS) levels in a wider
fundus area. We call this device a spectral retinal image (SRI) system. We are
pursuing the possibility of this instrument being in clinics to evaluate
chorioretinal diseases. 1. Introduction of the device: The instrument consists of
a Sagnac interferometer that has been mounted on top of a fundus camera, and a
software module which consists of an acquisition module and an analysis module.
The image acquisition process takes 6 seconds during which the fundus is
illuminated by the white incandescent light of the fundus camera at the regular
power settings. OS values in each pixel of the fundus image with a 35-degree view
can then be estimated from the respective spectrum that is obtained by
Fourier-transforming the interferometer signals. Each OS value is represented by 
a specific color, and each pixel of the fundus image is painted accordingly. 2.
Clinical applications. 1) Control study: OS levels of both retinal arteries and
veins within a 1 disc diameter (DD) area around the disc were measured from 20
SRIs obtained from 10 healthy volunteers, and were 96.65+/-3.30% and
56.05+/-4.69%, respectively. Then 30 healthy volunteers were recruited for
further study in which the OS values were calculated in five retinal regions: (1)
juxta-papillary area within 1.75 DD, (2) fovea within 1.0 DD, (3) papillomacular 
region within 1.0 DD, (4) superior area of the posterior fundus within 1.0 DD,
and (5) inferior posterior area of the posterior fundus within 1.0 DD. The OS
level of the juxta-papillary area was the highest, while that of the fovea was
the lowest and the other three posterior retinal regions were in the middle. Thus
OS levels differed at various areas in the retina with statistical significance. 
In spite of abundant choroidal circulation in the fovea, the overlying retina may
have a relative by low oxygen level. As the retinal pigment epithelium may be
efficient enough to block the effect of the choroid optically, our results may
indicate that the OS levels represent the OS of the retina. 2) Measurement of OS 
levels in eyes with retinal circulatory disturbances: Eleven eyes of 10 patients 
with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO), which showed various degrees of
severity, and 4 fellow unaffected eyes of selected patients were examined by both
fluorescein angiography (FAG) and the new SRI system. The fluroescein angiograms 
were correlated with OS maps that were calculated from the SRI. OS grading
demonstrated by OS maps correlated well with severity of CRVO, as estimated by
FAG. Thus our SRI system is noninvasive with reproducible results, and may prove 
to be a useful clinical tool to evaluate the degree of retinal ischemia. 3)
Measurement of OS levels in eyes with glaucoma: Forty-seven eyes with open angle 
glaucoma (OAG) of 47 patients and 21 eyes of 21 age-matched normal subjects were 
recuited for the study. Twelve eyes with low-tension glaucoma (LTG) were included
in the OAG eyes and the rest of the OAG eyes had primary OAG. All patients and
normal subjects were examined by SRI. Visual field tests for OAG eyes were done
with a Humphrey Field Analyzer using the 30-2 program, Swedish interactive
threshold argorithm (SITA). OS levels in the retina at 5 different points:
superior, inferior, superio- and inferio-temporal, and nasal region within a
juxta-papillary area of 200 microm in diameter were calculated from the SRI. OS
levels of retinal arteries were also measured and there were no significant
differences between OAG and the control group. OAG eyes showed reduced OS levels 
in the inferio-temporal retina with statistical significance. This observation
was more prominent in LTG eyes. The reduced OS levels observed in OAG eyes
correlated well with mean deviation (MD) and the sum of total deviation of the 17
points in corresponding areas in the visual field analysis.


PMID: 15656089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Klin Oczna. 2004;106(4-5):695-8.

[Genetic ground of primary open angle glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Krawczyński MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Z Pracowni Poradnictwa Genetycznego w Chorobach Narzadu Wzroku Katedry i
Zakładu Genetyki Medycznej Akademii Medycznej w Poznaniu.

Among basic risk factors for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), the leading
place takes positive family history. It is generally accepted that this type of
glaucoma presents multifactored determination, however pedigrees that follow
autosomal dominant way of inheritance are also described. Genetic studies made by
linkage analysis enabled to map six loci, linked to development of primary
open-angle glaucoma: GLC1A - in 1q21-q31 region, GLC1B - in 2cen-q13 region,
GLC1C- in 3q14-q24 region, GLC1D - in 8q23 region, GLC1E- in 10p15-p14 region and
GLC1F - in 7q35-q36 region. During last years, in GLC1A locus the TIGR gene that 
codes for myocilin was cloned and in GLC1E locus the OPTN gene that codes for
optineurin was cloned. It was also proved that their mutations are responsible
for development of several forms of POAG. Simultaneously it was shown that there 
are some additional modifier genes, such as CYP1B1 gene, mapped in 2p22-p21
region and coding one of the cytochrome P450 polypeptide, what indicates a
possibility of digenic inheritance of POAG.


PMID: 15646497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Ophthalmology. 2004 Dec;111(12):2211-9.

Central corneal thickness of Caucasians, Chinese, Hispanics, Filipinos, African
Americans, and Japanese in a glaucoma clinic.

Aghaian E(1), Choe JE, Lin S, Stamper RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco,
California, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the central corneal thickness (CCT) of Asian (Chinese,
Japanese, and Filipino), Caucasian, Hispanic, and African American patients in a 
multiethnic glaucoma practice.
DESIGN: Retrospective study (chart review).
PARTICIPANTS: Glaucomatous (n = 600) and nonglaucomatous (n = 201) eyes of 801
patients examined in a San Francisco glaucoma clinic from June 2002 to April 2004
who met inclusion criteria were included in the study. The 6 racial (ethnic)
groups represented in the study were Caucasian (n = 186, 23.2%), Chinese (n =
157, 19.6%), Japanese (n = 121, 15.1%), Hispanic (n = 116, 14.5%), Filipino (n = 
114, 14.2%), and African American (n = 107, 13.4%).
METHODS: Central corneal thickness was measured by means of ultrasound pachymetry
in Asian (Chinese, Japanese, and Filipino), Caucasian, Hispanic, and African
American participants with glaucomatous and normal eyes. The relationship between
CCT and race was investigated using multivariate regression analyses, controlling
for confounders. One eye of each of 801 participants was included for analysis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Correlation of mean CCT with race, glaucoma diagnosis,
age, spherical equivalent, gender, and history of ocular surgery.
RESULTS: The mean CCT of all participants was 542.9 mum. Central corneal
thicknesses of Chinese (555.6 microm), Caucasian (550.4 microm), Filipino (550.6 
microm), and Hispanic (548.1 microm) participants did not significantly differ.
The CCT of Japanese participants (531.7 microm) was significantly less than that 
of Caucasians, Chinese, Filipinos, and Hispanics (all, P< or =0.001) and greater 
than that of African Americans (P = 0.03). African Americans had a CCT (521.0.0
microm) less than that of all races (P< or =0.05). Glaucoma suspects and patients
with normal tension glaucoma (NTG), primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG),
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (PEX), and chronic angle-closure glaucoma (CACG) had
corneas significantly thinner than those of normal participants (P< or =0.004),
whereas ocular hypertensives had significantly thicker corneas (P<0.0001). Among 
all participants, decreasing values of CCT were significantly related to older
age (P<0.01). Less negative or more positive refractive errors, gender, and
history of ocular surgery were not associated with changes in CCT (P = 0.38, P = 
0.50, and P = 0.97, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Studies examining individual Asian subpopulations in isolation
suggest that differences in CCT may exist among different Asian groups. The
results of this study indicate that CCT does, in fact, vary among Asian
subpopulations; Japanese have thinner corneas than Chinese and Filipinos.
Caucasians, Chinese, Hispanics, and Filipinos have comparable CCT measurements,
whereas the corneas of African Americans are significantly thinner. Additionally,
older individuals; glaucoma suspects; and participants with NTG, POAG, PEX, and
CACG have thinner corneas. Ocular hypertensives, however, have thicker corneas.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2004.06.013 
PMID: 15582076  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Semin Ophthalmol. 2002 Jun;17(2):50-8.

The epidemiology of primary angle closure and associated glaucomatous optic
neuropathy.

Foster PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK.
p.foster@ucl.ac.uk

Angle closure glaucoma is emerging as a leading cause of blindness in the densely
populated countries of Asia. It has a greater propensity to cause bilateral
blindness than either primary open-angle glaucoma or secondary glaucoma. An
estimated 9.4 million people in China aged 40 years and older have glaucomatous
optic neuropathy. Approximately 5.2 million people (55%) would be blind in at
least one eye. Around 1.7 million (18.1%) would be blind in both eyes. it is
likely that PACG is responsible for the vast majority (91%) of bilateral glaucoma
blindness in China. The number of Chinese people with an "occludable" drainage
angle is in the region of 28.2 million, and of these 9.1 million have significant
angle closure. There is a growing emphasis on a revised method of classifying the
disease, which reserves the term "glaucoma" for cases with glaucomatous optic
neuropathy. The term primary angle closure (PAC) is used in cases with a closed
angle and peripheral anterior synechiae or raised intraocular pressure. Risk
factors for PAC include older age, female gender, Chinese ethnicity, all of which
are associated with anatomical risk factors of central and/or peripherally
shallow anterior chambers (usually associated with a thicker,
anteriorly-positioned lens), and a shorter axial length of the globe.

DOI: 10.1076/soph.17.2.50.14718 
PMID: 15513457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Klin Oczna. 2004;106(1-2 Suppl):269-72.

[Laser therapy in the treatment of glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Gierek-Lapińska A(1), Leszczyński R.

Author information: 
(1)Kliniki Okulistyki Slaskiej Akademii Medycznej w Katowicach.

PURPOSE: The paper is presenting the possibility of laser surgery in the
treatment of glaucoma, new operations, and laser equipment. In the treatment of
primary open angle glaucoma, argon laser was replaced by diode laser with
continuous wave and in recent years by Nd:YAG Q switch, second harmonic 532 nm.
This laser allows ophthalmologists for selective photoablation of cells with
pigment in trabeculum without thermal effect. The introduction of fibers to
transport energy let us increase accuracy and efficacy of laser therapy.
Application of excimer lasers 308 nm enables to perform trabeculectomy by
internal (ELT) and deep sclerectomy. After NPDS we sometimes have to use Q switch
Nd:YAG for goniopuncture, to prolong filtration function of trabeculum--Descemet 
membrane. In primary angle closure glaucoma the most often laser treatment is
iridotomy and gonioplasty. Laser cyclodestructive procedures almost completely
eliminated cyclodiathermy and cyclokriotherapy, which were performed so far. The 
main cyclophotocoagulative procedures are contact transscleral
cyclophotocogulation, transpupillary cyclophotocoagulation and intraocular
cyclophotocoagulation.
CONCLUSIONS: 1. The introduction of lasers enables safer, quicker and more
effective antiglaucoma operations. 2. New laser equipment increases efficacy of
so far performed laser surgery. 3. Laser surgery allows for the resignation of
patients hospitalization and thereby enables to decrease the cost of treatment,
and to increase the comfort of patients.


PMID: 15510522  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Ophthalmologe. 2004 Nov;101(11):1071-5.

[Ischemia and hypoxia. An attempt to explain the different rates of retinal
ganglion cell death in glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Schmidt KG(1), Pillunat LE, Osborne NN.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universität, Dresden. k.g.schmidt@gmx.de

In hypoxic or ischemic states, the receptors of the ganglion cells are
overstimulated by release of neurotransmitters. Glutamate and GABA
(gamma-aminobutyric acid) are the decisive neurotransmitters in the retina. It is
presumed that the extent of cell death depends on the degree of depolarization,
which in turn is determined by the amount of excitatory (glutamate) or inhibitory
(GABA) receptors of the corresponding ganglion cell. The assumption is that the
receptor profile of the individual ganglion cells determines the sensitivity of
these cells to hypoxia or ischemia, i.e., the time up to cell death, and thus
represents the underlying cause of the different rates of cell death in primary
chronic open-angle glaucoma. Research on this receptor profile could be of
pivotal importance for the approach to neuroprotective treatment of primary
chronic open-angle glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-004-1131-0 
PMID: 15490183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Ophthalmology. 2004 Oct;111(10):1853-9.

Comparison of long-term outcomes of selective laser trabeculoplasty versus argon 
laser trabeculoplasty in open-angle glaucoma.

Juzych MS(1), Chopra V, Banitt MR, Hughes BA, Kim C, Goulas MT, Shin DH.

Author information: 
(1)Kresge Eye Institute, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit,
Michigan 48201-1423, USA. mjuzych@med.wayne.edu

PURPOSE: To compare the long-term success rate of selective laser trabeculoplasty
(SLT) versus argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT).
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred ninety-five eyes of 195 patients with uncontrolled
open-angle glaucoma (OAG), of which 154 eyes underwent ALT and 41 eyes underwent 
SLT and were followed up for a maximum of 5 years.
INTERVENTION: The SLT patients were treated with the frequency-doubled q-switched
neodymium:yytrium-aluminum-garnet laser (532 nm). Approximately 50 to 55
nonoverlapping spots were placed over 180 degrees of the trabecular meshwork at
energy levels ranging from 0.6 to 1.0 mJ per pulse. The ALT patients were treated
with the argon blue-green laser with between 45 to 55 adjacent, nonoverlapping
spots over 180 degrees of the trabecular meshwork at 470 to 1150 mW of energy per
pulse.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The success rates were defined by criterion I and
criterion II. Success by criterion I was defined as a decrease in intraocular
pressure (IOP) of 3 mmHg or more with no additional medications, laser, or
glaucoma surgery. Criterion II had the same requirements as criterion I, except
that a 20% or more IOP reduction was required for success.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up time was 37.4+/-14.7 months for patients in the SLT
group and 33.6+/-17.0 months for patients in the ALT group. The long-term success
rate was not significantly different between the ALT and SLT groups by either
criterion (Kaplan-Meier survival analysis log-rank P = 0.20 by criterion I and P 
= 0.12 by criterion II). When comparing patients with and without previous ALT,
there was not a statistically significant difference in the patients treated with
SLT by either criterion (log-rank P = 0.37 by criterion I and P = 0.39 by
criterion II).
CONCLUSIONS: In eyes with primary OAG that are receiving maximally tolerated
medical therapy, SLT was found to be as effective as ALT in lowering IOP over a
5-year period. However, long-term data reveal that many of the glaucoma patients 
treated with SLT and ALT required further medical or surgical intervention.
Whether SLT has better long-term success than ALT in repeat laser trabeculoplasty
treatments remains unclear.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2004.04.030 
PMID: 15465546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Ophthalmologe. 2004 Nov;101(11):1062-70.

[Characteristic features of optic nerve ganglion cells and approaches for
neuroprotection. From intracellular to capillary processes and therapeutic
considerations].

[Article in German]

Funk RH(1), Schmidt KG.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie, Technische Universität, Dresden.
richard.funk@mailbox.tu-dresden.de

In many diseases associated with deterioration of the visual field and eyesight, 
optic nerve ganglion cells are at the highest risk. The clinical course of
primary chronic open-angle glaucoma (PCOAG) is also determined by the degree of
damage to these cells. Due to their anatomy, they are subject to extreme stress
exerted by metabolic and microcirculatory forces. The interaction between hypoxia
and metabolic stress leads to damage of the retinal ganglion cells. This is
compounded by oxidative stress and age-dependent increase of advanced glycation
end products. The following contribution gives consideration to approaches for
delaying ganglion cell death in PCOAG, e.g., with neuroprotective agents.
Furthermore, agents that reduce calcium influx into the cells could prevent cell 
destruction. Likewise, NMDA receptor antagonists could be effective; however,
considerable side effects are to be feared. Antioxidants are also attributed with
theoretical impact in combating PCOAG by preventing apoptosis. Finally, the ideal
glaucoma medication should be well tolerated when taken orally, prevent
destruction of retinal ganglion cells, and possess a low side effect profile.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-004-1116-z 
PMID: 15455253  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


547. J Glaucoma. 2004 Oct;13(5):365-70.

Aspirin use in advanced uncontrolled glaucoma.

Bell NP(1), Orengo-Nania S, Pietz K, Gross RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, The University of Texas
Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX, USA. nick.bell@earthlink.net

PURPOSE: To evaluate if aspirin use affects progression of primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: A retrospective review of patients with uncontrolled glaucoma was
performed. Incidence of aspirin use was noted by a one-time self-reporting
survey. Controls were medically stable patients diagnosed with POAG. The primary 
outcome measure studied was a comparison of percentages of aspirin use in
patients who have and have not undergone glaucoma filtering surgery
(trabeculectomy).
RESULTS: Forty-one percent (26/64) of the patients in the trabeculectomy group
and 23% (17/74) of controls were using aspirin. Patients undergoing
trabeculectomy were twice as likely to take aspirin (O.R., 2.29; 95% C.I.,
1.10-4.79). Subgroup analyses demonstrated increased aspirin use in those
operative patients who are current or former smokers (O.R., 3.71; 95% C.I.,
1.10-12.56), have systemic hypertension (O.R., 3.30; 95% C.I., 1.02-22.58), or
have joint disease (O.R., 4.60; 95% C.I., 1.34-15.82).
CONCLUSION: A higher concurrence of aspirin use was observed in patients with
POAG who required surgical management compared with patients having relatively
medically stable glaucoma. This may be secondary to a higher rate of glaucoma
surgery performed on patients with greater systemic illnesses, more of whom use
aspirin.


PMID: 15354073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Surv Ophthalmol. 2004 Sep-Oct;49(5):491-508.

Autonomic nervous system, circadian rhythms, and primary open-angle glaucoma.

Gherghel D(1), Hosking SL, Orgül S.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Institute, Aston University, Aston Triangle, Birmingham,
United Kingdom.

The etiology of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) remains the subject of
continuing investigation. Despite the many known risk factors and mechanism of
damage, the principal treatment objectives in POAG still consist of reduction of 
intraocular pressure, which although straightforward in many cases, often leaves 
the clinician with the question of how far to pursue a sufficiently low pressure 
to prevent further damage. Other risk factors such as hemodynamic insufficiency
due to vascular dysregulation and abnormal blood pressure are often overlooked in
the day-to-day practice; their harmful effects for glaucoma are, it seems, more
potent at night while the patient sleeps and when clinical investigation is most 
difficult. Although the status of autonomic nervous system is an important
determinant of the systemic hemodynamic parameters, this issue is usually ignored
by the clinician in the process of glaucoma diagnosis. Consequently, there is a
lack of alternative therapies tailored to address associated systemic risk
factors for POAG on a case and chronological basis; this approach could be more
effective in preventing the progression and visual loss in selected glaucoma
cases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2004.06.003 
PMID: 15325194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2004 Jul 3;148(27):1343-4.

[From gene to disease; primary open-angle glaucoma and three known genes: MYOC,
CYP1B1 and OPTN].

[Article in Dutch]

Bergen AA(1), Leschot NJ, Hulsman CA, De Smet MD, De Jong PT.

Author information: 
(1)Interuniversitair Oogheelkundig Instituut, Meibergdreef 47, 1105 BA Amsterdam.
a.bergen@ioi.knaw.nl

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a group of multifactorial diseases that
affects 1.5% of the population. If untreated, the disease leads to irreversible
damage to the visual system. The clinical features of POAG are excavation of the 
optic disc and visual field defects, probably due to degeneration of retinal
ganglion cells. Important risk factors for POAG are older age, elevated
intraocular pressure, the presence of POAG in relatives, and still largely
unknown molecular genetic factors. The clinical, genetic and pathological
heterogeneity most likely reflects the complex heterogeneous situation at the
molecular level. The three genes known to be involved in POAG (MYOC, CYP1B1 and
OPTN) account for up to 18% of the POAG cases. These findings result in new
possibilities for the presymptomatic molecular diagnosis of POAG.


PMID: 15283026  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Oftalmologia. 2004;48(1):5-14.

[Timolol topical ophthalmic combination].

[Article in Romanian]

Călugăru M, Călugăru D.

The primary standard therapy in patients with open-angle glaucoma and ocular
hypertension is carried out by means of monotherapy with synthetic prostaglandin 
analogues. Most of the glaucoma patients need more than one medication for
adequate intraocular pressure control. Timolol represents the basic component of 
these combinations. Timolol topical ophthalmic combinations with dorzolamide
(Cosopt), pilocarpine, latanoprost (Xalacom), travoprost and unoprostone are
thoroughly described. Most antiglaucoma medications achieve on one side directly 
baroprotection by decreasing intraocular pressure and on the other side they
produce indirectly vasoprotection, that is secondary to intraocular pressure
lowering. The Cosopt, due to its Dorzolamide component, makes an exception since 
it produces directly both baroprotection by aqueous humor flow suppression and
vasoprotection by increasing the blood flow within the retina, choroid, optic
nerve head and retrobulbar area. Given these considerations as well as the fact
that the ocular hypotensive effect of both the Cosopt and the latanoprost are
equally potent, a question seems reasonable according to accepted standard i.e.
Cosopt or latanoprost as primary glaucoma therapy?


PMID: 15279411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2004 May-Jun;14(3):220-5.

Adult-onset primary glaucoma and molecular genetics: a review.

Frezzotti R(1), Renieri A, Frezzotti P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
frezzotti@unisi.it

PURPOSE: To evaluate recent molecular genetic studies focused on localizing and
identifying the genes involved in adult-onset primary glaucoma, characterizing
the gene products, and investigating the molecular mechanisms implicated in the
pathophysiology of the disease.
METHODS: Several studies have aimed at understanding gene expression and protein 
processing and attempting to correlate the mutations identified in the involved
genes, particularly the TIGR/MYOC gene, with the overall spectrum of the disease,
ranging from juvenile glaucoma to typical late-onset primary open-angle glaucoma.
Genetic research remains essential until highly specific and sensitive tests have
been developed (plausible disease-causing sequence variations, polymorphisms).
RESULTS: The most effective method for detecting glaucoma clinically is the study
of optic nerve and visual field damage, as well as intraocular pressure. In
subjects at high risk, in members of families with a strong history of inherited 
glaucoma, and in families with a MYOC-positive test, the result may represent a
marker to assess presymptomatic diagnosis and may be useful as a prognostic
marker.
CONCLUSIONS: OPTN seems to have a role confined to the pathogenesis of
normotensive glaucoma with a few exceptions. Presently, the introduction of the
expensive and time-consuming OPTN gene test in the current diagnosis of familial 
glaucoma is not justified.


PMID: 15206647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Br J Nutr. 2004 Jun;91(6):809-29.

Functional dichotomy: glutathione and vitamin E in homeostasis relevant to
primary open-angle glaucoma.

Veach J(1).

Author information: 
(1)docveach@manistee.com

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a complex chronic neurological disease that
can result in blindness. The goal of understanding the aetiology of POAG is to be
able to target effective treatment to individuals who will eventually go blind
without it. Epidemiological studies of POAG have not specifically addressed the
possibility that nutrition may play a role in the development of POAG. A handful 
of papers have considered that nutrition may have an impact on POAG patients.
POAG is not believed to be a 'vitamin-deficiency disease'. The concept of
'vitamin-deficiency diseases' and the recommended daily allowances have not kept 
pace with the growing understanding of the cellular and molecular functions of
vitamins and other micronutrients. The aetiology of POAG remains a mystery.
Discoveries in cell physiology can be assimilated from the literature and applied
to known homeostatic mechanisms of the eye. In this way the possible roles of
nutritional components involved in the aetiology of POAG can be described. The
mechanisms may be subject to many influences in ways that have yet to be defined.
Two distinct changes in the trabecular meshwork can be identified: trabecular
meshwork changes that cause intra-ocular pressure to increase and trabecular
meshwork changes that are directly correlated to optic nerve atrophy. Compelling 
evidence suggests that collagen trabecular meshwork extracellular matrix (ECM)
remodelling is correlated to increased intraocular pressure in POAG. Elastin
trabecular meshwork ECM remodelling is correlated to POAG optic nerve atrophy.
There appear to be two different pathways of ECM remodelling and apoptosis
induction in POAG. The pathway for collagen remodelling and apoptosis induction
seems to be exogenously influenced by water-soluble antioxidants, for example,
glutathione. The pathway for elastin remodelling and apoptosis induction seems to
be influenced by endogenous lipid-soluble antioxidants, for example, vitamin E.
Roles can be defined for antioxidants in the two different pathways of ECM
remodelling and apoptosis induction. This suggests that antioxidants are
important in maintaining cellular homeostasis relevant to the aetiology of POAG.

DOI: 10.1079/BJN20041113 
PMID: 15182385  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Ophthalmology. 2004 Jun;111(6):1196-200.

Retinal vein occlusions in patients taking warfarin.

Browning DJ(1), Fraser CM.

Author information: 
(1)Charlotte Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Associates, Charlotte, North Carolina,
USA. dbrowning@ceenta.com

OBJECTIVE: To describe development of retinal vein occlusion (RVO) in patients
anticoagulated with warfarin.
DESIGN: Retrospective, observational case series.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirteen patients drawn from a private retina practice.
METHODS: Review of clinical records, laboratory results, color fundus
photographs, and fluorescein angiograms.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary measures were international normalized ratio
(INR), visual acuity, and concurrent systemic disease.
RESULTS: The female-to-male ratio was 7 to 6. Age range was 44 to 86 years, with 
a median age of 73 years. Two patients had systemic lupus erythematosus, 7 had
hypertension, and 2 had primary open-angle glaucoma. Two had laboratory
abnormalities: 1 with a combination of lupus anticoagulant and anticardiolipin
antibodies and 1 with a combination of hyperhomocystinemia and low antithrombin
III. Three patients were taking acetylsalicylic acid in addition to warfarin at
the time of the RVO. The INRs at the time of RVO were 0.9 to 3.8, with 9 of 13
<==2.0.
CONCLUSIONS: Anticoagulation with warfarin does not preclude RVO in predisposed
patients, nor does combination therapy with warfarin and acetylsalicylic acid.
Attention to keeping the INR >2.0 may be helpful.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2003.09.047 
PMID: 15177971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Lancet. 2004 May 22;363(9422):1711-20.

Primary open-angle glaucoma.

Weinreb RN(1), Khaw PT.

Author information: 
(1)Hamilton Glaucoma Center and Department of Ophthalmology, University of
California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0946, USA.
weinreb@eyecenter.ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Lancet. 2004 Oct 9-15;364(9442):1311-2.

Primary open-angle glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy and, perhaps, the
most common form of glaucoma. Because the disease is treatable, and because the
visual impairment caused by glaucoma is irreversible, early detection is
essential. Early diagnosis depends on examination of the optic disc, retinal
nerve fibre layer, and visual field. New imaging and psychophysical tests can
improve both detection and monitoring of the progression of the disease. Recently
completed long-term clinical trials provide convincing evidence that lowering
intraocular pressure prevents progression at both the early and late stages of
the disease. The degree of protection is related to the degree to which
intraocular pressure is lowered. Improvements in therapy consist of more
effective and better-tolerated drugs to lower intraocular pressure, and more
effective surgical procedures. New treatments to directly treat and protect the
retinal ganglion cells that are damaged in glaucoma are also in development.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)16257-0 
PMID: 15158634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2004 Mar-Apr;14(2):153-5.

Choroidal effusion and hypotony caused by severe anterior lens capsule
contraction following cataract surgery.

Musa F(1), Aralikatti AK, Prasad S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Arrowe Park Hospital, Wirral, United Kingdom.
fayyaz@doctors.net.uk

PURPOSE: The case report describes a case of severe anterior capsular contraction
associated with choroidal effusion.
CASE REPORT: An 81 year old female with primary open angle glaucoma underwent
routine phacoemulsification cataract surgery. Eight weeks following surgery the
anterior capsule opening had reduced to 3 mm in size. Intraocular pressure was
found to be 4 mmHg and B scan ultrasound revealed a large choroidal effusion.
Anterior capsulotomy with Nd:YAG laser was performed. At review, two weeks later,
the choroidal effusion had resolved and visual acuity had recovered.
DISCUSSION: The Nd:YAG laser radial relaxing capsulotomies helped relieve the
capsular contraction and associated traction on the ciliary body.


PMID: 15134114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Am J Clin Nutr. 2004 May;79(5):755-64.

Dietary fat consumption and primary open-angle glaucoma.

Kang JH(1), Pasquale LR, Willett WC, Rosner BA, Egan KM, Faberowski N, Hankinson 
SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Channing
Laboratory, 181 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
nhjhk@channing.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Prostaglandin F(2alpha) analogues are effective
intraocular-pressure-lowering drugs. Dietary fatty acids affect endogenous
prostaglandin F(2alpha) concentrations and may thus influence intraocular
pressure.
OBJECTIVE: We prospectively examined dietary fat consumption in relation to
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
DESIGN: Women (n = 76 199 in the Nurses' Health Study) and men (n = 40 306 in the
Health Professionals Follow-Up Study) free of POAG in 1980 and 1986,
respectively, were followed until 1996 if they were > or =40 y old and reported
receiving eye exams during follow-up. Potential confounders were assessed on
biennial questionnaires, and energy-adjusted cumulative averaged fat intakes were
measured by using validated food-frequency questionnaires. We analyzed 474
self-reported POAG cases confirmed by medical chart review. Cohort-specific
multivariate rate ratios (RRs) were obtained by using proportional hazards models
and were then pooled.
RESULTS: Major fats and fat subtypes were not independently associated with POAG 
risk. Pooled multivariate RRs (95% CI) for POAG comparing the highest with the
lowest quintile of fat intake were as follows: 0.90 (0.67, 1.21) for total fat,
1.03 (0.77, 1.38) for saturated fat, 0.76 (0.56, 1.03) for monounsaturated fat,
and 0.87 (0.66, 1.16) for polyunsaturated fat, none of which were statistically
significant. We found a suggestive positive association between a higher ratio of
n-3 to n-6 polyunsaturated fat and risk of POAG [RR = 1.49 (1.11, 2.01); P for
trend = 0.10], which was stronger for high-tension POAG [RR = 1.68 (1.18, 2.39); 
P for trend = 0.009].
CONCLUSION: A high ratio of n-3 to n-6 polyunsaturated fat appears to increase
the risk of POAG, particularly high-tension POAG. Further studies are needed.


PMID: 15113712  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2004 Apr;5(4):909-21.

An evaluation of the fixed-combination of latanoprost and timolol for use in
open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Feldman RM(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Health Science, Houston Texas, USA. rmfeldman@swbell.net

Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness worldwide.
Although there is no cure for this chronic disease, medical treatment is aimed at
reducing levels of intraocular pressure (IOP) using ocular hypotensive agents.
Very often, patients require more than one IOP-reducing drug, resulting in
complex medication regimens that may be difficult to maintain and that can lead
to non-compliance. A fixed-combination (FC) ophthalmic solution consisting of the
prostaglandin, latanoprost (0.005%), and the beta-blocker, timolol (0.5%), is now
available. The primary mechanism of action of latanoprost is to increase
uveoscleral outflow whereas timolol lowers IOP levels by decreasing the formation
of aqueous humor in the ciliary epithelium. Due to the unique mechanism of action
of latanoprost, once-daily dosing of one drop of FC latanoprost/timolol results
in additional IOP reduction compared with either drug administered separately. FC
latanoprost/timolol is well-tolerated and has a safety profile similar to that of
its individual components. This combination drug provides a safe, effective and
convenient alternative for the treatment of patients with elevated IOP levels
uncontrolled with monotherapy.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.5.4.909	 
PMID: 15102573  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Int Ophthalmol Clin. 2004 Spring;44(2):43-60.

Primary open-angle glaucoma in African Americans.

Girkin CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, South 18th Street, Suite 601, Birmingham,
AL 35233, USA.


PMID: 15087730  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2004 Apr;15(2):127-31.

Glaucoma management in developing countries: medical, laser, and surgical options
for glaucoma management in countries with limited resources.

Thomas R(1), Sekhar GC, Kumar RS.

Author information: 
(1)L.V. Prasad Eye Institute, L.V.Prasad Marg, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad, India.
ravithomas@lvpei.org

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Most people affected by glaucoma live in developing countries.
Recent trials and reports provide sound evidence for management of glaucoma. This
review extrapolates relevant articles to the developing world.
RECENT FINDINGS: The predictive value of gonioscopy for progression of primary
angle closure suspects (PACS) to primary angle closure (PAC) is only 22% (95% CI:
9.80-34.2). PACS are not uncommon; laser peripheral iridotomy (LPI) is neither
indicated nor feasible for all. Twenty-eight and a half percent of PAC progress
to primary angle closure glaucoma; the number needed to treat (NNT) for LPI to
prevent progression is only 4. Laser peripheral iridoplasty controls acute angle 
closure glaucoma (AACG) faster than medical therapy alone. Primary lens
extraction has also been suggested as treatment for AACG after control of the
acute attack. A 5-year NNT for ocular hypertension (OH) of 20 is too high to
allow treatment of all OH. High-risk OH and primary open angle glaucoma (POAG)
have an NNT of 5 to 6 and merit treatment. Latanoprost and brimonidine are
effective in lowering IOP in Asian eyes with POAG, but primary surgical therapy
may be a more viable option. For cataract and coexistent glaucoma requiring
filtration, trabeculectomy combined with the Blumenthal technique of cataract
surgery may be as effective as trabeculectomy combined with phacoemulsification.
SUMMARY: The principles of glaucoma management should be the same the world over.
Considering the paucity of resources and competing opportunity costs, countries
with limited resources have to extrapolate available information in a sensible
and cost-effective manner.


PMID: 15021224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2004 Apr;15(2):75-9.

The dawn of genetic testing for glaucoma.

Cohen CS(1), Allingham RR.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To review recent trends in genetic testing in medicine as they
apply to newly evolving tests for patients with glaucoma.
RECENT FINDINGS: The utilization of powerful molecular methods for genetic
testing is now entering its early stages in the practice of medicine in general, 
and with testing, many issues, both medical and societal, have been raised. Only 
recently has testing for a disease risk factor in primary open angle glaucoma
(POAG) become available. It is known that some mutations in the gene myocilin are
associated with POAG. MYOC.mt1 is a relatively common promoter region variant in 
the myocilin gene for which there is a commercially available test. Some
investigators have found that MYOC.mt1 may increase disease severity in patients 
with POAG, whereas others have not found this association. There is a need for
further testing for the role of the MYOC.mt1 variant in the pathogenesis of POAG.
SUMMARY: Genetic testing for glaucoma holds great promise. Currently available
tests for disease-related tests in patients with glaucoma or at risk for this
disease remain controversial.


PMID: 15021214  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Hum Mol Genet. 2004 Apr 1;13 Spec No 1:R91-102. Epub 2004 Feb 5.

Genetic dissection of myocilin glaucoma.

Gong G(1), Kosoko-Lasaki O, Haynatzki GR, Wilson MR.

Author information: 
(1)Osteoporosis Research Center, Creighton University Omaha, NE 68131, USA.
gdgong@creighton.edu

Erratum in
    Hum Mol Genet. 2004 May 1;13(9):991.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a complex disease with unknown causes.
However, in the past decade, POAG has been linked to six chromosomal regions, of 
which the gene MYOC encoding myocilin and the gene OPTN encoding optineurin have 
been identified to harbor causal mutations (disease-causing variants, DCV). POAG 
caused by DCV at MYOC has been termed "myocilin glaucoma". Clinically, DCV at
MYOC may manifest as a typical POAG, normal tension glaucoma, or ocular
hypertension without glaucoma. Individuals with the Arg46Stop mutation that
almost knocks out the entire coding sequence may have severe glaucoma or no
glaucoma. Genetically, myocilin glaucoma follows autosomal dominant, recessive or
no pattern of inheritance. DCV at MYOC cause POAG in interaction with
environmental factors and DCV at other loci. Most DCV at MYOC are relatively
young, and the Gln368Stop mutation is exclusively European in origin. The overall
frequency of DCV at MYOC is similar among African, Caucasian and Asian probands
with POAG. Because of this fact and the higher prevalence of POAG in African
descendants compared with Caucasians or Asians, the overall frequency of DCV at
MYOC is several-fold higher in the general population of African descendants,
which is in part responsible for their higher prevalence of POAG. Although the
Arg46Stop mutation was often observed in normal controls, Arg46Stop carriers tend
to have higher risk of developing POAG. Polymorphisms at several loci including
MYOC are associated with POAG, and play an important role in the pathogenesis of 
POAG.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddh074 
PMID: 14764620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Ophthalmol Clin North Am. 2003 Dec;16(4):529-41.

Optineurin in primary open angle glaucoma.

Sarfarazi M(1), Rezaie T.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Ophthalmic Genetics Laboratory, University of Connecticut Health
Center, Farmington, CT 06030, USA. mansoor@neuron.uchc.edu

The authors' initial estimate indicated that mutations in Optineurin are
responsible for a significant proportion of LPG/POAG families. Currently, there
are up to 1.2 million persons with LPG and up to 2.47 million persons with POAG
in the United States alone. Perhaps twice as many individuals are already
affected with this condition without any identifiable clinical signs or symptoms.
Investigators are eagerly awaiting confirmation of OPTN mutations in other
glaucoma populations. Although additional mutations have already been identified 
in the sporadic cases of LPG, the significance of this gene in high-pressure POAG
requires more intensive investigation. Limited data on partial screening of this 
gene indicate that OPTN mutations are responsible for a limited number of cases
of high-pressure POAG. If the reported mutation rates of OPTN in the LPG group
can be confirmed in other LPG or POAG patients, then this gene would be useful in
diagnosing presymptomatic persons many decades before they develop this silent
and blinding eye condition. Early identification of such at-risk patients would
provide an opportunity for immediate targeted medical treatments and specific
glaucoma therapy that might significantly delay or completely stop the gradual
progression of this condition. Therefore, identification of glaucoma-causing
genes such as Myocilin, Optineurin, and others could provide molecular diagnostic
tools for this category of optic neuropathy. Although patients with advanced
glaucoma will not directly benefit from the use of such molecular diagnostic
tools, their immediate family members could certainly benefit from the
identification of the cause of the glaucoma decades before the first
manifestation of the disease. In summary, a series of mutations in the Optineurin
gene have been shown to be the principal cause of adult-onset LPG/POAG phenotype 
in certain pedigrees. The exact mechanisms through which these mutations lead to 
the development of glaucoma require additional functional study. The existing
evidence suggests that direct interaction of Optineurin with E3-14.7K protein
probably utilizes TNF-alpha or Fas-ligand pathways to mediate apoptosis,
inflammation, or vasoconstriction. Optineurin also functions through its
interactions with other proteins in cellular morphogenesis and membrane
trafficking (RAB8), vesicle trafficking (Huntingtin), transcription activation
(TFIIIA), and assembly or activity of two unknown kinases. Identification of
Optineurin as an adult-onset glaucoma gene and its known interaction with a group
of proteins provides the first opportunity to study biochemical pathways that are
thought to be involved in causation of this group of eye disorders. Furthermore, 
identification of this gene as a contributing factor to the development of
glaucoma gives a useful tool for screening of this disorder in the elderly
population and other high-risk individuals. The exact impact of OPTN in the
development of all glaucoma phenotypes requires future study.


PMID: 14740994  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2003 Dec;107(12):745-67.

[21st century management of glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Tsukahara S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Yamanashi University, 1110
Shimokato, Tamaho-cho, Nakakoma-gun, Yamanashi 409-3898, Japan.

According to a recent epidemiological study done in Japan, 2 or 3 million
Japanese people are thought to be suffering from glaucoma, and 70-80% of them
have not been examined or diagnosed by ophthalmologists. Therefore, the problem
is how to find these untreated and undiagnosed people. At present, treatment of
glaucoma continues to be directed at lowering intraocular pressure to prevent
progression of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. However, theoretically, there are
three stages in the prevention of progression of glaucoma. In the first stage,
diagnosis of glaucoma can be done by genetic examination, before occurrence of
glaucoma. The MYOCILIN/trabecular meshwork-inducible glucocorticoid response gene
and the optineurin gene were identified as the genes that cause open angle
glaucoma. Although some Japanese patients have sequence changes in the myocilin
gene, there are no apparent specific mutations in Japanese glaucoma patients, in 
the MYOCILIN/TIGR and optineurin genes. Secondary glaucoma such as steroid
glaucoma, induced by allergic diseases, and neovascular glaucoma, induced by
retinal circulatory insufficiency, are preventable by improving the causal
diseases, diabetes and hypertension. The education of doctors and laymen is
important to reduce the occurrence of diabetes, and hypertension to prevent
diabetic retinopathy, and retinal vessel occlusion. The second stage in
preventing progression of glaucoma is to find the disease as early as possible.
In Japan, a physical examination system is in place for everybody over 40 years
old, in companies and local districts. Therefore, ocular examination, specially
non-mydriatic fundus photographs should be taken in these examinations, and the
film should be evaluated by an ophthalmologist, to search for retinal and optic
disc abnormalities. Primary open angle glaucoma can be detected through this
system in early stages. In primary angle closure glaucoma, instruments for
estimating anterior chamber rapidly and accurately are necessary for the
diagnosis. There is a special machine which can be handled easily, safely, and
economically for detecting angle closure glaucoma, has been developed by
Yamanashi University. This machine might help to reduce the number of angle
closure glaucoma patients in the world. In the near future, a glaucoma network
system should be put in place all over Japan. This organization consists of
central headquarter and local central office. Most hospitals and private offices 
will belong to a local central office, and several glaucoma specialists will work
in central and local offices. All glaucoma patients will be registered in local
glaucoma office. The information on glaucoma patients will be communicated in the
system the through light fiber cables or a satellite system. The patients can ask
about their own disease through this glaucoma center system. In the third stage
of glaucoma prevention, progression of glaucomatous optic neuropathy is retarded 
by conventional IOP lowering treatment or neuroprotective drugs. This stage
compromises rehabilitation of visual function, implant of artificial visual
systems, and regeneration of retinal ganglion cells(RGC). The disturbances of
axonal flow in guinea pig optic nerve fibers was demonstrated
electromicroscopically by quick-freeze, deep-etching method and, the decrease in 
numbers of motor proteins like "Kinesin" "Dynein" and "MAP-1" was shown in guinea
pig eyes with elevated intraocular pressure by immunohistochemistry. Retinal
glanglion cells have been isolated and new findings have been reported using this
RGC culture system. Therefore, new neuroprotective drugs will be developed
through this culture system.


PMID: 14733129  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Am J Ophthalmol. 2003 Dec;136(6):1106-13.

Pulsatile ocular blood flow in primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
hypertension.

Kerr J(1), Nelson P, O'Brien C.

Author information: 
(1)Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion, Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: To compare pulsatile ocular blood flow measurements in untreated ocular 
hypertensive (OHT) subjects and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) patients.
DESIGN: A prospective observational study in an institutional setting.
METHODS: A total of 97 subjects were recruited to the study (50 ocular
hypertensives, 24 glaucoma patients, and 23 normal subjects). "High-risk" OHT had
intraocular pressure (IOP) > 25 mm Hg; "low-risk" OHT had IOP <or= 25 mm Hg.
Pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) measurements were made with a pneumotonometer 
in sitting, standing, and supine positions. Intraocular pressure was measured
with Goldmann tonometry. Twenty-six patients were started on topical treatment to
reduce intraocular pressure, and the measurements were repeated at a review
visit.
RESULTS: Untreated POAG patients and high-risk OHT had reduced POBF (P <.001) and
pulse volume (P <.001) compared with both normals and low-risk OHT. Women had
higher POBF than men (P =.009, two-way analysis of variance). Subjects with
pharmacologically lowered IOP had a significant increase in mean POBF (+80.9
microl/min, P =.02) and a significant reduction in mean arterial blood pressure
(-11.0 mm Hg, P =.003). Postural reduction in POBF (from sitting to supine)
increased and became statistically significant in POAG and OHT subjects on
treatment (P <.0001).
CONCLUSION: High-risk ocular hypertensives have reduced POBF when compared with
low-risk ocular hypertensives and normals and do not differ significantly from
POAG patients. Our findings support the clinical impression that ocular
hypertensive subjects with IOP of over 25 mm Hg should be monitored closely and
may benefit from prophylactic treatment to lower intraocular pressure.


PMID: 14644222  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Mol Cell Biochem. 2003 Nov;253(1-2):223-31.

Recent advances in molecular genetics of glaucoma.

Ray K(1), Mukhopadhyay A, Acharya M.

Author information: 
(1)Human Genetics and Genomics Division, Indian Institute of Chemical Biology,
Jadavpur, Kolkata, India. kunalray@vsnl.com

Glaucoma represents a heterogeneous group of optic neuropathies, with different
genetic bases. It can affect all ages generally with a rise in intra-ocular
pressure. Three major types of glaucoma have been reported: primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG), primary acute closed angle glaucoma (PACG) and primary
congenital glaucoma (PCG), as well as a few others associated with developmental 
abnormalities. In recent years impressive progress has been made in the molecular
genetic studies of POAG and PCG. These include the discovery of three
genes--Myocilin, Optineurin and CYP1B1--defects in which results in Mendelian
transmission of glaucoma. Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms in
multiple other genes that are associated with glaucoma and alteration of drug
sensitivity are enriching our knowledge regarding the complex nature of the
disease. This review attempts to present the recent progress made in the
molecular genetics of glaucoma.


PMID: 14619973  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Drugs Aging. 2003;20(12):919-47.

Brinzolamide : a review of its use in the management of primary open-angle
glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Cvetkovic RS(1), Perry CM.

Author information: 
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Brinzolamide is a highly specific carbonic anhydrase (CA) inhibitor which lowers 
intraocular pressure (IOP) by reducing the rate of aqueous humour formation.
Formulated as a 1% ophthalmic suspension (Azopt) and administered twice or three 
times daily, brinzolamide is indicated for the topical management of primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and ocular hypertension (OH) as either monotherapy or 
adjunctive therapy with topical beta-blockers. As monotherapy in patients with
POAG or OH, brinzolamide 1% demonstrated IOP-lowering efficacy that was
significantly greater than placebo, equivalent to three-times-daily dorzolamide
2% but significantly lower than twice-daily timolol 0.5%. Brinzolamide 1% was
equally effective in twice- and three-times-daily regimens producing diurnal mean
IOP reductions from baseline in the range of 13.2-21.8%. When used adjunctively
twice daily with timolol 0.5%, brinzolamide 1% was as effective as dorzolamide 2%
and superior to placebo in lowering IOP in patients with POAG or OH. In clinical 
trials, brinzolamide 1% was well tolerated causing only nonserious adverse
effects that were generally local, transient and mild to moderate in severity.
The incidence of the most common adverse events associated with the use of
brinzolamide 1% was either similar to (blurred vision and abnormal taste) or
significantly lower than (ocular discomfort) with dorzolamide 2%. Topical
brinzolamide 1% does not appear to produce the acid-base or electrolyte
disturbances and severe systemic adverse effects characteristic of oral CA
inhibitors. It can be used in patients unresponsive to beta-blockers or in whom
beta-blockers are contraindicated. Brinzolamide 1% administered twice daily is
among the least costly alternatives and adjuncts to beta-blocker therapy for
glaucoma and is generally associated with less direct medical cost than
dorzolamide.CONCLUSION: Brinzolamide 1% ophthalmic suspension administered twice 
or three times daily, as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy with topical
beta-blockers, has good IOP-lowering efficacy in patients with POAG or OH that is
equivalent to that of dorzolamide 2% (three times daily as monotherapy, twice
daily as adjunctive therapy). Brinzolamide is generally well tolerated and does
not produce the systemic adverse effects associated with oral CA inhibitors. It
can be used in patients who are unresponsive to, intolerant of, or unable to
receive, ophthalmic beta-blockers. Thus, brinzolamide, either as monotherapy or
adjunctive therapy with topical beta-blockers, should be regarded as a good
second-line option in the pharmacological management of POAG and OH, and may be
preferred over dorzolamide because of significantly less ocular discomfort.


PMID: 14565787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2003 Jul;13 Suppl 4:S21-9.

Persistency and clinical outcomes associated with latanoprost and beta-blocker
monotherapy: evidence from a European retrospective cohort study.

Diestelhorst M(1), Schaefer CP, Beusterien KM, Plante KM, Fain JM, Mozaffari E,
Dhawan R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

PURPOSE: To evaluate persistency (time on initial therapy) and the clinical
impact of latanoprost versus beta-blocker monotherapy in treating glaucoma.
METHODS: This observational, multicenter, retrospective medical chart review
study conducted in four European countries included patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who began their first glaucoma
treatment with latanoprost or a beta-blocker between November 1996 and November
1998. Persistency and glaucoma-related clinical outcomes data were abstracted for
the 2 years following treatment initiation.
RESULTS: In all, 260 patient charts were analyzed (94 latanoprost, 166
beta-blocker). Patients in the latanoprost group stayed on therapy twice as long 
as those who received a beta-blocker (p < 0.0001). After adjusting for baseline
characteristics, patients receiving a beta-blocker as initial therapy were 3.8
times more likely to change therapy than those initially treated with latanoprost
(p < 0.0001). Patients in the latanoprost group also experienced greater mean
decreases in intraocular pressure (IOP) than those receiving a beta-blocker (7.4 
mmHg versus 4.6 mmHg, respectively; p < 0.0001), and fewer had worsened optic
nerve head excavation (1.7% versus 14.2%, respectively; p < 0.05) by the time of 
their first therapy change or last study visit, whichever came first.
CONCLUSIONS: Over a 2-year period, latanoprost was associated with significantly 
greater persistency and better clinical IOP outcomes compared with beta-blocker
therapy.


PMID: 12948050  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


568. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 Sep;57(9):752-4.

Primary open angle glaucoma. The need for a consensus case definition.

Kroese M(1), Burton H.

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Genetics Unit, Strangeways Research Laboratory, Cambridge, UK.
markk@srl.cam.ac.uk

Primary open angle glaucoma is an important cause of visual impairment and
blindness in the United Kingdom. This paper gives a brief overview of the
condition and its management. It presents evidence of the continued absence of a 
consensus case definition for this condition. This has resulted in considerable
uncertainty about what is diagnosed and treated as primary open angle glaucoma.
The important negative effects of this situation are outlined. These include the 
impact on the person wrongly diagnosed with the condition, the uncertainties both
for commissioning and provision of clinical healthcare services, and the lack of 
a firm basis for research into the condition. It is argued that there is an
urgent need to resolve this problem to improve the health of the population.


PMCID: PMC1732569
PMID: 12933785  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Am J Epidemiol. 2003 Aug 15;158(4):337-46.

Antioxidant intake and primary open-angle glaucoma: a prospective study.

Kang JH(1), Pasquale LR, Willett W, Rosner B, Egan KM, Faberowski N, Hankinson
SE.

Author information: 
(1)Channing Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School and
Brigham and Women's Hospital, 181 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
nhjhk@channing.harvard.edu

The relation between dietary antioxidant intake and primary open-angle glaucoma
risk was examined in participants aged over 40 years in the Nurses' Health Study 
(n = 76,200) and the Health Professionals Follow-up Study (n = 40,284). They were
followed biennially from 1980 and 1986, respectively, to 1996, during periods
when they received an eye examination. Dietary intakes were measured repeatedly
from 1980 in the Nurses' Health Study and from 1986 in the Health Professionals
Follow-up Study using validated food frequency questionnaires. The authors
analyzed 474 self-reported glaucoma cases confirmed by medical chart review to
have primary open-angle glaucoma with visual field loss. The authors used Cox
proportional hazards models for cohort-specific multivariate analyses, and
results were pooled using random effects models. The pooled multivariate rate
ratios for primary open-angle glaucoma comparing the highest versus lowest
quintile of cumulative updated intake were 1.17 (95% confidence interval (CI):
0.87, 1.58) for alpha-carotene, 1.10 (95% CI: 0.82, 1.48) for beta-carotene, 0.95
(95% CI: 0.70, 1.29) for beta-cryptoxanthin, 0.82 (95% CI: 0.60, 1.12) for
lycopene, 0.92 (95% CI: 0.69, 1.24) for lutein/zeaxanthin, 1.05 (95% CI: 0.59,
1.89) for vitamin C, 0.97 (95% CI: 0.62, 1.52) for vitamin E, and 1.11 (95% CI:
0.82, 1.51) for vitamin A. In conclusion, the authors did not observe any strong 
associations between antioxidant consumption and the risk of primary open-angle
glaucoma.


PMID: 12915499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Drug Saf. 2003;26(11):749-67.

Drug-induced glaucomas: mechanism and management.

Tripathi RC(1), Tripathi BJ, Haggerty C.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology, University of South Carolina School of Medicine,
Columbia, South Carolina 29209, USA. tripathi@med.sc.edu

Glaucoma comprises a heterogeneous group of diseases that have in common a
characteristic optic neuropathy and visual field defects, for which elevated
intraocular pressure is the major risk factor. The level of intraocular pressure 
within the eye depends on the steady state of formation and drainage of the clear
watery fluid, called the aqueous humour, in the anterior chamber of the eye. An
obstruction in the circulatory pathway of aqueous humour causes an elevation in
intraocular pressure. Because intraocular pressure is the most modifiable
parameter, therapeutic measures (medical and surgical) are aimed at reducing the 
pressure to protect against optic nerve damage. Glaucomatous optic neuropathy
results from degeneration of the axonal nerve fibres in the optic nerve and death
of their cell bodies, the retinal ganglion cells. Clinical examination of the
optic nerve head or disc and the peripapillary nerve fibre layer of the retina
reveals specific changes, and the resulting visual field defects can be
documented by perimetry. Glaucoma can be classified into four main groups:
primary open-angle glaucoma; angle-closure glaucoma; secondary glaucoma; and
developmental glaucoma. Drug-induced glaucoma should be considered as a form of
secondary glaucoma because it is brought about by specific systemic or topical
medications. Although there is a high prevalence of glaucoma worldwide, the
incidence of drug-induced glaucoma is uncertain. Drugs that cause or exacerbate
open-angle glaucoma are mostly glucocorticoids. Several classes of drugs,
including adrenergic agonists, cholinergics, anticholinergics, sulpha-based
drugs, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, tricyclic and tetracyclic
antidepressants, anticoagulants and histamine H(1) and H(2) receptor antagonists,
have been reported to induce or precipitate acute angle-closure glaucoma,
especially in individuals predisposed with narrow angles of the anterior chamber.
In some instances, bilateral involvement and even blindness have occurred. In
this article, the mechanism and management of drug-induced glaucomatous disease
of the eye are emphasised. Although the product package insert may mention
glaucoma as a contraindication or as an adverse effect, the type of glaucoma is
usually not specified. Clinicians should be mindful of the possibility of
drug-induced glaucoma, whether or not it is listed as a contraindication and, if 
in doubt, consult an ophthalmologist.


PMID: 12908846  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 2003;(288):65-74.

[Glaucoma secondary to surgery of the posterior eye segment].

[Article in French]

Detry-Morel M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, UCL, Bruxelles. detry@ofta.ucl.ac.be

Whether associated with panretinal photocoagulation, scleral buckling, pars plana
vitrectomy, intraocular gases or silicone oil injection, transient or sustained
elevation of IOP is a frequent complication following vitreoretinal procedures
and may be produced by numerous mechanisms. Among the different primary and
secondary glaucomas of both closed and open angle type which may occur, silicone 
oil glaucoma probably raises the most difficult concerns and frequently requires 
aggressive medical and surgical management with most often modest chances of
success. This presentation will focus on the different mechanisms, the risk
factors, the clinical diagnosis and the treatment of ocular hypertension and
glaucoma resulting from the different vitreoretinal procedures.


PMID: 12879726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Dev Ophthalmol. 2003;37:83-93.

Progress in the genetics of glaucoma.

Weisschuh N(1), Schiefer U.

Author information: 
(1)Molekulargenetisches Labor Universitäts-Augenklinik Tübingen, Deutschland.
nicole.weissschuh@uni-tuebingen.de

The term glaucoma describes a heterogeneous group of optic neuropathies that lead
to optic nerve atrophy and permanent loss of vision. It is the second most
prevalent cause of bilateral blindness in the Western world and affects over 60
million people worldwide. The hereditary forms of glaucoma are genetically
heterogeneous. Different forms of glaucoma can be distinguished: the primary
open-angle glaucoma of adult onset is the most common, representing approximately
half of all cases. The juvenile-onset open-angle glaucoma is an uncommon
autosomal dominant form of glaucoma with manifestation predominantly before the
fourth decade of life. The primary congenital glaucoma is a clinical and genetic 
entity clearly distinct from the juvenile form, following an autosomal recessive 
mode of inheritance. At least eight loci have been linked to glaucoma (GLC1A-F,
GLC3A/B) and three genes have been identified to date: MYOC, CYP1B1 and OPTN. In 
the last decade, there has been much progress in finding new genes, detecting
disease-related mutations and determining allele frequencies within populations
of different ethnical backgrounds, but little is known about the function of the 
mutated gene products and the underlying pathogenic mechanisms. This chapter
attempts to summarize the current knowledge regarding glaucoma-associated genes.


PMID: 12876831  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2003 May;22(3):253-75.

Why is glaucoma associated with exfoliation syndrome?

Ritch R(1), Schlötzer-Schrehardt U, Konstas AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, 310 East 14th
Street, 10003 New York, NY, USA. ritchmd@earthlink.net

Exfoliation syndrome (XFS) is an age-related, generalized disorder of the
extracellular matrix characterized by production and progressive accumulation of 
a fibrillar material in tissues throughout the anterior segment and also in
connective tissue portions of various visceral organs. Mature exfoliation fibrils
are composed of 8-10 nm microfibrils resembling elastic microfibrils. The exact
chemical composition of exfoliation material (XFM) remains unknown. It appears to
consist of a complex glycoprotein/ proteoglycan structure composed of a protein
core surrounded by abundant glycoconjugates. The protein components include both 
non-collagenous basement membrane components and epitopes of the elastic fiber
system, particularly components of elastic microfibrils. Overall, XFS is the most
common identifiable cause of glaucoma, accounting for the majority of cases in
some countries, and causing both open-angle glaucoma and angle-closure glaucoma. 
Iridolenticular friction leads to loss of XFM from the anterior lens surface and 
disruption of the iris pigment epithelium, resulting in pigment deposition in the
trabecular meshwork, which also produces XFM locally. The primary cause of
chronic pressure elevation appears to be the active involvement of trabecular
cells and Schlemm's canal cells in particular, in the generalized pathologic
matrix process with subsequent degenerative changes of Schlemm's canal and
adjacent tissues. Narrow angles and angle-closure are common in XFS. Pupillary
block may be caused by a combination of posterior synechiae, increased iris
thickness or rigidity, or anterior lens movement secondary to zonular weakness or
dialysis. Enlargement of the lens due to cataract formation and relative
pupillary constriction are additional factors.


PMID: 12852486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Am Fam Physician. 2003 May 1;67(9):1937-44.

Open-angle glaucoma.

Distelhorst JS(1), Hughes GM.

Author information: 
(1)Milliman Care Guidelines, Division of Milliman, Seattle, Washington 98104,
USA. jim.distelhorst@milliman.com

Glaucoma is the second most common cause of legal blindness in the United States.
Open-angle glaucoma is an asymptomatic, progressive optic neuropathy
characterized by enlarging optic disc cupping and visual field loss. Patients at 
increased risk for open-angle glaucoma include blacks older than 40 years, whites
older than 65 years, and persons with a family history of glaucoma or a personal 
history of diabetes or severe myopia. Elevated intraocular pressure is a strong, 
modifiable risk factor for open-angle glaucoma, but it is not diagnostic. Some
patients with glaucoma have normal intraocular pressure (i.e., normal-pressure
glaucoma), and many patients with elevated intraocular pressure do not have
glaucoma (i.e., glaucoma suspects). Routine measurement of intraocular pressure
by primary care physicians to screen patients for glaucoma is not recommended.
Open-angle glaucoma usually is discovered during an adult eye evaluation
performed for other indications. Final diagnosis and treatment occur in
collaboration with ophthalmologists and optometrists. Formal visual field testing
(perimetry) is a mainstay of glaucoma diagnosis and management. Eye drops,
commonly nonspecific beta-blocker or prostaglandin analog drops, generally are
the first-line treatment to reduce intraocular pressure. Laser treatment and
surgery usually are reserved for patients in whom medical treatment has failed.
Without treatment, open-angle glaucoma can end in irreversible vision loss.


PMID: 12751655  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2003 Apr;13 Suppl 3:S27-31.

Neuroprotection as a treatment for glaucoma: pharmacological and immunological
approaches.

Schwartz M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot,
Israel. michal.schwartz@weizmann.ac.il

Primary open-angle glaucoma is a chronic, progressive optic neuropathy associated
with a gradual decline in visual function, which may lead to blindness. In most
cases, the optic neuropathy is associated with increased intraocular pressure. It
is now generally accepted, however, that normalization of pressure, although
necessary, is often not-sufficient as a remedial measure. This is because of the 
existence of additional factors, some of which emerge as a consequence of the
initial damage. This situation is reminiscent of the response to a traumatic
axonal insult, in which some of the damage is immediate and is caused by the
insult itself, and some is secondary and is caused by a deficiency of
growth-supportive factors as well as by toxic factors derived from the damaged
tissue. Accordingly, the author has suggested that glaucoma may be viewed as a
neurodegenerative disease and consequently amenable to any therapeutic
intervention applicable to neurodegenerative diseases. There is evidence that
neuroprotection can be achieved both pharmacologically and immunologically.
Pharmacologic intervention neutralizes some of the effects of the nerve-derived
toxic factors and possibly increases the ability of the remaining healthy
neurons, at any given time, to cope with the stressful conditions. Immunologic
intervention boosts the body's repair mechanisms for counteracting the toxicity
of physiologic compounds acting as stress signals.


PMID: 12749674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Surv Ophthalmol. 2003 May-Jun;48(3):295-313.

Primary open-angle glaucoma in blacks: a review.

Racette L(1), Wilson MR, Zangwill LM, Weinreb RN, Sample PA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Center and Visual Function Laboratory, Department of Ophthalmology,
University of California at San Diego, La Jolla 92093-0946, USA.

Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of blindness worldwide. Primary open-angle 
glaucoma (POAG) is the most prevalent form of glaucoma and has a particularly
devastating impact in blacks. In the black American population, POAG prevalence
is estimated to be six times as high in certain age groups compared to whites.
POAG is more likely to result in irreversible blindness, appears approximately 10
years earlier and progresses more rapidly in blacks than in whites. Racial
differences in optic disk parameters have been reported and show that blacks have
larger optic disks than whites. This finding is robust and may account for the
reported differences in other optic disk parameters. The existence of racial
differences in intraocular pressure remains to be demonstrated, as conflicting
findings are reported in the literature. Intraocular pressure may actually be
underestimated in blacks, perhaps because they have thinner corneas. The
prevalence of diabetes and hypertension is higher in blacks than in whites, and
although no causal relationship has been established between POAG and each of
these systemic diseases, some reports suggest that they often occur together,
perhaps through an indirect relationship with intraocular pressure. Compounding
the problem, there is evidence that blacks are less responsive to both drug and
surgical treatment for POAG. Finally, they often have reduced accessibility to
treatment and are less aware of the risks of having POAG. This article provides a
comprehensive review of the current knowledge pertaining to POAG in blacks.


PMID: 12745004  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2003 Apr;14(2):106-11.

Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study: a summary of results to date.

Feiner L(1), Piltz-Seymour JR; Collaborative Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study.

Author information: 
(1)Scheie Eye Institute, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
19104, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review summarizes the key findings from the Collaborative
Initial Glaucoma Treatment Study (CIGTS), which was designed to evaluate whether 
medical therapy or trabeculectomy is the better initial treatment for patients
with open-angle glaucoma (OAG). In addition to examining effects on visual field 
progression, intraocular pressure control, and visual acuity, the study also
examined the effects of medical and surgical treatments on quality of life.
RECENT FINDINGS: The 4+-year interim outcomes noted no significant difference in 
visual field loss between the medically and surgically treated patients. Patients
assigned to trabeculectomy had lower intraocular pressures, but demonstrated a
greater risk for significant loss of visual acuity and a threefold increased rate
of cataract progression. Most quality-of-life measurements were similar in the
two treatment arms, except local eye symptoms, which were reported more
frequently by the surgically treated patients.
SUMMARY: Results from CIGTS do not support altering current treatment practices
in the initial management of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 12698052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2003 Mar;13(2):162-75.

Four years later: a clinical update on latanoprost.

Ravinet E(1), Mermoud A, Brignoli R.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Hospital Jules Gonin, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: Almost five years have elapsed since the introduction of latanoprost on 
several markets and considering the large number of publications dealing with it,
the authors felt that it was worth re-evaluating the drug.
METHODS: The criterion used to select trials for inclusion in the review was: all
articles mentioning the drug in common electronic data-bases; these were then
screened and considered, on the basis of methodological quality.
RESULTS: Experimental data suggest that latanoprost acts by remodeling the
extracellular matrix in the ciliary muscle, thus increasing the flow of aqueous
humor through the ciliary muscle bundles of the uveoscleral pathway. POAG:
Latanoprost persistently improves the pulsatile ocular blood flow in primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG). Recent trials confirmed the greater IOP-lowering efficacy 
of latanoprost vs. timolol, dorzolamide, brimonidine and unoprostone. Trials
lasting up to 24 months showed that latanoprost is effective in long-term
treatment of POAG and ocular hypertension (OH), with no signs of loss of efficacy
when compared to timolol or dorzolamide. Latanoprost provides better control of
circadian IOP. Non-responders to beta-blockers should preferably be switched to
latanoprost monotherapy before a combination therapy is started. The possibility 
of a fixed combination of latanoprost and timolol has been explored, with
promising results. NTG: Latanoprost is effective in normal tension glaucoma
(NTG), lowering IOP, improving pulsatile ocular blood flow and increasing ocular 
perfusion pressure. OTHER GLAUCOMAS: Latanoprost may provide effective IOP
control in angle-closure glaucoma after iridectomy, in pigmentary glaucoma,
glaucoma after cataract extraction and steroid-induced glaucoma. However,
latanoprost was effective in only a minority of pediatric cases of glaucoma and
is contraindicated in all forms of uveitic glaucoma.
SAFETY: In the articles reviewed, new or duration-related adverse events were
reported.


PMID: 12696636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


579. J Glaucoma. 2003 Apr;12(2):98-103.

Septuagenarian's phenotype leads to ascertainment of familial MYOC gene mutation.

Lim P(1), Lichter PR, Higashi M, Downs CA, Richards JE.

Author information: 
(1)University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

PURPOSE: To report a family with a myocilin (MYOC) gene mutation ascertained on
the basis of the phenotype of the 71-year-old proband with juvenile-onset primary
open-angle glaucoma (JOAG).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A thorough patient history of the proband and review of
medical records revealed that a filtering procedure performed 50 years before had
controlled the intraocular pressure (IOP) and prevented optic disc damage and
visual field loss until the bleb failed after cataract surgery. Patient
characteristics and history led to suspicion of a mutation in the MYOC gene.
Mutation screening and clinical evaluation of the proband and family members were
undertaken.
RESULTS: A Val426Phe mutation was found in the JOAG proband and in 3 other blood 
relatives with glaucoma. The mutation was not present in unaffected relatives.
CONCLUSIONS: A functioning filtering procedure performed 50 years before the
current study was all that was needed to prevent glaucomatous damage and control 
IOP in the proband. Once the bleb failed, increased IOP led to damage in a
relatively brief period of time. Although not every JOAG patient has the MYOC
mutation, there is a somewhat typical MYOC phenotype that may predict an
increased chance of harboring a MYOC mutation. Use of such phenotype information 
in evaluating whether to screen older patients can lead to identification of
families at risk for open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 12671462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2003 Jan 11;147(2):67-9.

[From gene to disease; the nail-patella syndrome and the LMX1B gene].

[Article in Dutch]

Bongers EM(1), Knoers NV.

Author information: 
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum St Radboud, afd. Antropogenetica, Postbus 9101,
6500 HB Nijmegen.

Nail-patella syndrome (NPS) is an autosomal dominant hereditary disorder
characterised by nail dysplasia, patellar apoplasia/hypoplasia, iliac horns,
elbow dysplasia, and frequently primary open angle glaucoma and progressive
nephropathy. The gene underlying NPS, LMX1B on chromosome 9q34.1, is a
transcription factor involved in the normal dorsoventral patterning of the limb
and normal development of the glomerular basement membrane in the kidney. Recent 
studies suggest a role for LMX1B in the regulation of collagen IV expression and 
in the transcriptional regulation of podocyte specification and differentiation. 
At present, no evidence for a correlation between the presence and severity of
the clinical anomalies and the LMX1B genotype has been found.


PMID: 12602071  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc. 2002;100:131-5; discussion 135-6.

Clinical decision making based on data from GDx: one-year observations.

Bobrow JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine whether information derived from the GDx scanning laser
polarimeter aids in the clinical decision-making process for patients with
various types of glaucoma.
METHODS: Over a 4-month period, 342 consecutive patients with primary open-angle 
glaucoma, ocular hypertension, angle-closure glaucoma, or secondary glaucomas or 
in whom the diagnosis of glaucoma was uncertain were evaluated with the GDx
scanning laser. After 1 year, 153 patients with glaucoma underwent GDx analysis
again. Chart review revealed that 42 of the 153 patients had a change in therapy 
as a result of the GDx evaluation combined with analysis of visual fields, optic 
disc cupping, and intraocular pressure (IOP). Outcomes were then compared.
RESULTS: The group who had a change in therapy had a higher average GDx number
(51.5 +/- 26.1 vs 37.0 +/- 23.5 [P = .001]) at the initial visit and higher IOP
(18.2 +/- 4.6 vs 16.0 +/- 3.2 mm Hg [P = .005]). In spite of a change in therapy,
at an average of 344 days later, IOP was unchanged (18.3 +/- 5.3 vs 15.7 +/- 3.2 
mm Hg [P = .001]) and GDx values in the altered therapy group were higher than at
baseline (57.3 +/- 27.9 vs 36.7 +/- 23.4 [P = .001]), although the differences
within each group did not achieve statistical significance.
CONCLUSION: GDx analysis may be helpful in determining patients at risk for
damage from glaucoma, even in eyes in which cup-disc ratio and field loss have
not progressed. Changing medications without significantly reducing IOP may be
insufficient to halt increases in GDx numbers and may indicate a need for more
aggressive therapy.


PMCID: PMC1358955
PMID: 12545686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Surv Ophthalmol. 2002 Nov-Dec;47(6):547-61.

Myocilin glaucoma.

Fingert JH(1), Stone EM, Sheffield VC, Alward WL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, The University of Iowa
Hospitals and Clinics, 200 Hawkins Drive, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA.

Genetic factors have long been implicated in the pathophysiology of primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Recently, myocilin, a gene of unknown function, was
associated with both juvenile open-angle glaucoma (JOAG) and POAG. Forty-three
different myocilin mutations have been reported in open-angle glaucoma patients, 
and several large studies have suggested that as a group these mutations are
associated with 3-4% of POAG in patient populations worldwide. Support for the
pathogenicity of the individual myocilin mutations has been obtained from in
vitro assays, statistical methods, and conservation of gene sequence arguments.
Several of these myocilin mutations were observed in multiple patients allowing
the identification of mutation-specific glaucoma phenotypes (maximum intraocular 
pressure and age at diagnosis). Associations between myocilin and other forms of 
open-angle glaucoma have been explored. At present there is no evidence to link
myocilin mutations and steroid-induced ocular hypertension or normal-tension
glaucoma. Clinical vignettes of POAG patients from four generations of a family
harboring the TYR437HIS myocilin mutation are presented, highlighting the
benefits of elucidating the genetics of glaucoma.


PMID: 12504739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Clin Exp Optom. 1999 Nov-Dec;82(6):225-229.

A review of argon and selective laser trabeculoplasty as primary treatments of
open-angle glaucoma.

Sanfilippo P(1).

Author information: 
(1)96 Nellie Street, Queensland, 4012, Australia.

It is generally accepted within the ophthalmic community that medical therapy is 
the preferred primary treatment in open-angle glaucoma, followed by laser
trabeculoplasty if the medical therapy is unsuccessful, with surgery employed
more as an end-stage option when these avenues have been exhausted. This review
discusses the efficacy of argon laser trabeculoplasty, alone and in comparison
with medical therapy as a primary treatment of glaucoma. It will also discuss the
new laser technique, selective laser trabeculoplasty.


PMID: 12482268  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


584. Clin Exp Optom. 2000 May-Jun;83(3):190-194.

Secondary glaucoma.

Hall AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Opthalmology, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Grattan Street,
Parkville, Victoria, 3052, Australia.

PURPOSE: To review the common causes of secondary glaucoma. METHODS: Review of
current literature. RESULTS: Secondary open and closed angle glaucomas are an
important cause of ocular morbidity and vision loss in our community. Secondary
glaucoma occurs with acquired ocular diseases (pigment dispersion,
pseudoexfoliation, intraocular infection, intraocular inflammation and retinal
vascular disease), blunt anterior segment injury, intraocular surgery (especially
corneal grafting and congenital cataract surgery) and topical corticosteroid use.
The medical treatment of secondary glaucoma is different from that of primary
open angle glaucoma and must be tailored for the individual patient. Surgical
treatment of secondary glaucoma carries a higher risk of complications and a
lower rate of success than does surgical treatment of primary open angle
glaucoma. CONCLUSIONS: Secondary glaucoma occurs with a variety of intraocular
conditions and after a variety of intraocular insults. Awareness of patients at
high risk should enable early detection and referral for appropriate management.


PMID: 12472452  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


585. Clin Exp Optom. 2000 May-Jun;83(3):128-135.

Visual fields in glaucoma: a clinical overview.

Wood JM(1), Swann PG, Stavrou EP.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research, School of Optometry, QUT Kelvin Grove, Victoria Park 
Road, Kelvin Grove, Queensland, 4059, Australia.

Static automated visual field testing is now an integral part of the detection
and monitoring of primary open angle glaucoma. However, although many aspects of 
testing are automated, interpretation of the large amounts of data produced by
these instruments is not. Two major challenges facing the practitioner are
differentiating between the visual fields of a patient with early glaucoma and
those of a normal patient, and identifying whether small reductions in
sensitivity are due to a true defect or a product of other factors. This paper
presents a clinical overview of how to systematically review visual field plots
and how to recognise defects arising from patient factors, as well as some of the
alternative testing techniques available for the assessment of the glaucoma
patient.


PMID: 12472445  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


586. Mol Neurobiol. 2002 Aug;26(1):45-55.

Neurobiology of glaucomatous optic neuropathy: diverse cellular events in
neurodegeneration and neuroprotection.

Wax MB(1), Tezel G.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacia Corporation, St Louis, MO 63138, USA. martin.b.wax@pharmacia.com

Although glaucomatous optic nerve degeneration is a leading cause of worldwide
blindness, neither the precise cellular mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration
in glaucoma, nor effective strategies for neuroprotection are yet clear. This
review focuses on diverse cellular events associated with glaucomatous
neurodegeneration whose balance is critical for determination of ultimate cell
fate. An improved understanding of the site of primary injury to optic nerve, the
mediator pathways of apoptotic cell death and intrinsic protection mechanisms in 
retinal ganglion cells, the role of glial activation on the survival and death of
retinal ganglion cell bodies and their axons, and the protective and destructive 
consequences of immune system involvement can facilitate development of effective
neuroprotective strategies in glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1385/MN:26:1:045 
PMID: 12392055  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Vestn Oftalmol. 2002 Jul-Aug;118(4):43-7.

[Autoregulation of ocular vessels in health and in primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Kunin VD.


PMID: 12371326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Ophthalmologe. 2002 Sep;99(9):683-90.

[Relevance of the pseudoexfoliation syndrome for the glaucomas].

[Article in German]

Schlötzer-Schrehardt U(1), Küchle M, Jünemann A, Naumann GO.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik der Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen.

Secondary chronic open-angle glaucoma associated with pseudoexfoliation (PEX)
syndrome accounts for approximately 25% of all glaucomas and represents the most 
common identifiable cause of glaucoma overall. The underlying disorder, PEX
syndrome, is a generalized process of the extracellular matrix characterized by
production and progressive accumulation of an abnormal extracellular material in 
many intra- and extraocular tissues. Recent data support the pathogenetic concept
of PEX syndrome as a type of elastosis affecting particularly elastic
microfibrils. Active involvement of the trabecular meshwork in this
characteristic matrix process may lead to glaucoma development in 40-60% of the
patients. In addition, PEX syndrome also represents an important risk factor for 
a broad spectrum of spontaneous or intra- and postoperative ocular complications 
as well as for systemic cardiovascular diseases. PEX-associated open-angle
glaucoma represents a relatively severe and progressive type of glaucoma with a
generally poor prognosis due to high intraocular pressure levels and fluctuations
in the diurnal pressure curve. The primary cause of chronic pressure elevation
appears to be local production of PEX material by trabecular meshwork cells and
Schlemm's canal cells with subsequent degenerative changes of Schlemm's canal and
juxtacanalicular tissues. Additional pathogenetic factors contributing to
pressure increase include pronounced melanin dispersion, increased protein
concentrations of the aqueous humor, vascular factors, and connective tissue
alterations of the lamina cribrosa. Other types of glaucoma, such as acute
open-angle glaucoma, provoked by melanin showers during diagnostic mydriasis, or 
secondary angle closure glaucoma due to pupillary or ciliary block, are also
common in PEX patients. The pathogenetic factors TGF-beta1 and TIMP-1/2 appear to
be causally involved in this fibrotic process and thus may represent potential
targets for specific, rational therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-002-0702-1 
PMID: 12219256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Ophthalmologe. 2002 Sep;99(9):678-82.

[Control of wound healing after glaucoma surgery. Effect and inhibition of the
growth factor TGF-beta].

[Article in German]

Wimmer I(1), Grehn F.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik der Julius-Maximilians-Universität, Würzburg,
Germany.

Erratum in
    Ophthalmologe. 2002 Oct;99(10):751.

The main problem of the surgical failure after trabeculectomy is postoperative
scarring of the filtering bleb. The treatment with anti-metabolites such as
5-fluorouracil and mitomycin C to prevent scarring shows many toxic side-effects 
and causes patient stress. In the search for therapeutic alternatives, the focus 
of current research concentrates on the pathophysiological interaction between
growth factors and their role in the induction of scarring. Among the growth
factors, TGF-beta 2 represents an important stimulant of scarring with a key
regulatory function. The TGF-beta 2 concentration in the aqueous humor of primary
open angle glaucoma is significantly elevated. In vitro and in vivo studies have 
demonstrated promising inhibition of scarring after subconjunctival application
of human monoclonal anti-TGF-beta 2 antibody, which appears to be a safe and well
tolerated therapeutic approach. Currently, several prospective studies are
investigating the role of anti-TGF-beta 2 antibody as an alternative to
conventional long term inhibition of scarring.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-002-0698-6 
PMID: 12219255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2002 Oct;30(5):334-7.

The corneal thickness and intraocular pressure story: where are we now?

Lee GA(1), Khaw PT, Ficker LA, Shah P.

Author information: 
(1)City Eye Centre, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. mdglee@hotmail.com

A review of the current literature was conducted regarding the effect of corneal 
thickness on the diagnosis of glaucoma, and the influence of excimer laser
refractive surgery on intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement with Goldmann
applanation tonometry. In general, normals and primary open angle glaucoma
patients have a similar distribution of corneal thickness; however, there is a
wide variation, ranging from 427 to 716 micro m. Normal tension glaucoma patients
have a tendency towards thinner corneas than normals; however, there is an
overlap of thickness measurements of more than two-thirds in 95% of patients.
There is a trend for ocular hypertensives to have thicker corneas than normals,
but again there is an overlap of about one-third in 95% of patients. The general 
trend after excimer laser refractive surgery is for a decrease in IOP, with a
mean fall in IOP measured of 0.63 mmHg per dioptre correction. There is, however,
a large scatter of values with some patients having the same or lower IOP
post-laser, but with other patients measuring higher pressures. Corneal thickness
can influence IOP measurement by Goldmann applanation tonometry; however, the
magnitude of the effect is subject to much individual variation.


PMID: 12213156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Surv Ophthalmol. 2002 Aug;47 Suppl 1:S176-84.

Histology and fine structure of the iris and outflow system following latanoprost
therapy.

Grierson I(1), Pfeiffer N, Cracknell KP, Appleton P.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Ophthalmology, Department of Medicine, University Clinical
Departments, University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 3GA, United Kingdom.

Latanoprost therapy can lead to iris darkening in susceptible individuals,
particularly those with hazel eyes. Concerns have been raised about whether
latanoprost, and for that matter other prostanoids, may have a harmful effect on 
the iris. In addition, it is unknown whether latanoprost causes increased
pigmentation of the outflow pathways that might eventually lead to blockage and a
type of pigmentary glaucoma. The present study summarizes findings from the
authors' own laboratories on the effects of latanoprost as seen by light and
electron microscopy of the iris and outflow tissues and reviews the as yet
limited, relevant literature. The findings support the proposal that
latanoprost-induced eye color change is likely to be due to an increased amount
of melanin within iris stromal melanocytes rather than any increase in melanocyte
numbers, although many aspects of the darkening process remain obscure. No marked
pathological changes were found in the latanoprost-treated iris; however, the
numbers of specimens examined by us to date are still small (40 specimens in all)
and those with latanoprost-induced darkening are even fewer (18). In the authors'
experience, pigmentation of the outflow system in latanoprost-treated eyes was no
greater than in eyes with primary open-angle glaucoma without prostanoid
treatment, but there have been only limited numbers of trabeculectomy specimens
examined. Concerns about latanoprost producing meshwork hyperpigmentation and
pigmentary glaucoma are discussed.


PMID: 12204715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Surv Ophthalmol. 2002 Aug;47 Suppl 1:S155-61.

Combined therapy of pilocarpine or latanoprost with timolol versus latanoprost
monotherapy.

Diestelhorst M(1), Nordmann JP, Toris CB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Cologne, Joseph-Stelzmann-Strasse
9, Cologne 50931, Germany. michael.diestelhorst@medizin.uni-koeln.de

Adjunctive intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering therapy is widely used today, as
one-third of all patients being treated for glaucoma need additional therapy to
reach and maintain healthy IOPs. Timolol, latanoprost, and pilocarpine are three 
potent drugs that have been used in combination to reduce IOP. Timolol reduces
the production rate of aqueous humor to achieve the IOP decrease. Latanoprost and
pilocarpine both affect aqueous outflow, although by different mechanisms. The
IOP efficacy of combined therapy with timolol and pilocarpine compared with
timolol and latanoprost or with latanoprost alone has been investigated in three 
multicenter, randomized, clinical trials in Europe. This is a review of those
published trials. In 2 of the 3 studies, the additional IOP lowering effect of
latanoprost 0.005% administered once daily was compared with pilocarpine 2%
administered 3 times daily in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) or
ocular hypertension currently on monotherapy with timolol 0.5% twice daily. These
6-month studies found that the timolol and latanoprost combination reduced IOP
more and was better tolerated with fewer side-effects than the timolol and
pilocarpine combination. At 6 months, there was no evidence of long-term drift in
IOP with timolol and latanoprost. This combined therapy provides an effective and
safe option for lowering IOP in glaucoma patients. These results suggest that the
timolol/latanoprost combination is preferable to the timolol/pilocarpine
combination not only with regard to side effects but also to the magnitude of IOP
reduction. Two of the 3 studies compared latanoprost monotherapy with timolol and
pilocarpine combined therapy in patients with POAG, various other glaucomas, or
ocular hypertension. Treatment was for 6 weeks or 6 months. In both studies,
latanoprost was more effective and better tolerated than the combination of
timolol and pilocarpine. These results suggest that latanoprost alone should be
tried before the addition of pilocarpine to timolol therapy is considered. The
convenience of daily administration of a single drop of latanoprost versus
multiple drops of timolol and pilocarpine should improve patient compliance.


PMID: 12204713  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


593. J Glaucoma. 2002 Aug;11(4):279-86.

Neuroradiologic screening in normal-pressure glaucoma: study results and
literature review.

Ahmed II(1), Feldman F, Kucharczyk W, Trope GE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    J Glaucoma. 2002 Aug;11(4):277-8.

PURPOSE: To determine if there was an increased prevalence of intracranial
compressive lesions in patients with clinically diagnosed normal-pressure
glaucoma compared with a group of patients with progressive primary open-angle
glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a prospective, comparative, observational case series,
the authors performed cranial magnetic resonance imaging in patients with
consecutively diagnosed normal-pressure glaucoma (n = 62) and progressive primary
open-angle glaucoma with controlled intraocular pressures (n = 70). The
prevalence of intracranial compressive lesions, demographic data, and clinical
characteristics were compared between both groups.
RESULTS: Four of the 62 (6.5%) patients with normal-pressure glaucoma had
clinically relevant intracranial compressive lesions involving the anterior
visual pathway, compared with none of the 70 patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma (P = 0.039).
CONCLUSIONS: Intracranial compressive lesions are an important diagnostic
consideration in the workup of normal-pressure glaucoma.


PMID: 12169963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2002 Jul;21(4):395-428.

Myocilin and glaucoma: facts and ideas.

Tamm ER(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Molecular Anatomy and Embryology, University of
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Universitätstr. 19, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany.
ernst.tamm@anatomie2.med.uni-erlangen.de

Mutations in the MYOC gene that encodes for myocilin are causative for some forms
of juvenile and adult-onset primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Myocilin is a
secreted 55-57kDa glycoprotein that forms dimers and multimers. Characteristic
structural motifs include a myosin-like domain, a leucine zipper region and an
olfactomedin domain. Most of the mutations that have been identified in patients 
with POAG are localized in the olfactomedin domain, which is highly conserved
among species. In the eye, myocilin is expressed in high amounts in the
trabecular meshwork (TM), sclera, ciliary body and iris, and at considerable
lower amounts in retina and optic nerve head. Secreted myocilin is present in the
aqueous humor. In the TM, myocilin is found within the cytoplasm of TM cells and 
in the juxtacanalicular region in association with fibrillar extracellular matrix
components. Since patients with mutations in myocilin may have high intraocular
pressures, the role of myocilin for aqueous humor outflow has been investigated
and conflicting results have been obtained. Recombinant myocilin increases
outflow resistance in perfused anterior segment organ cultures, while
overexpression of myocilin after viral gene transfer appears to reduce outflow
resistance. In TM cells, the expression of myocilin is induced upon treatment
with dexamethasone at a time course similar to that observed in steroid-induced
glaucoma. Other factors that induce myocilin expression are transforming growth
factor-beta and mechanical stretch. Promoter elements that are important for the 
glucocorticoid induction have not been identified, but it has been shown that
upstream stimulatory factor is critical for the basal promoter activity of MYOC. 
Mice with a targeted disruption of the myocilin gene do not express a phenotype, 
indicating that the glaucomatous phenotype in humans is not because of a
loss-of-function effect. Experimental studies show that mutated myocilin is not
secreted, but appears to accumulate in the cells. Such an accumulation might
interfere with TM function and lead to impaired outflow resistance, but, so far, 
experimental evidence for such a scenario is lacking. In addition, the normal
function(s) of myocilin is (are) still elusive.


PMID: 12150989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Manag Care Interface. 2002 Jul;15(7):37-48.

Best practice treatment algorithm for primary open-angle glaucoma: implications
for U.S. ophthalmology practice.

Serle J(1), Cantor L, Gross R, Katz J, Mundorf T, Noecker R, Severin T, Simmons
S, Walt J, Casciano J, Evans S, Doyle J.

Author information: 
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York City, USA.

The objective of this study was to develop a "best-practice" treatment algorithm 
for the management of primary open-angle glaucoma in patients receiving initial
medical therapy, to serve as a consideration for future ophthalmology practice.
For comparison, a baseline, "common-practice" treatment algorithm was also
created that reflects current ophthalmology practice patterns. Survey instruments
were developed based on a comprehensive review of relevant literature, along with
input from a general ophthalmologist. A panel of eight ophthalmologists
subspecialized in glaucoma management was surveyed. Consensus was achieved using 
a modified Delphi technique. A comparison of common- and best-practice treatment 
algorithms suggests that in contrast with expert opinion, nonselective beta
blockers are currently used more often, and alpha-2 agonists less often, as
first-line therapy for the treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 12143296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Drug Saf. 2002;25(8):583-97.

Safety of unoprostone isopropyl as mono- or adjunctive therapy in patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.

de Arruda Mello PA(1), Yannoulis NC, Haque RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Federal University of Sao Paulo-Paulista School
of Medicine and Director Residency Training, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

This review summarises the safety of unoprostone isopropyl (both at the 0.12 and 
0.15% concentrations) instilled twice daily in patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) or ocular hypertension (OH). For unoprostone 0.15%, combined data
from two 12-month comparative monotherapy studies are reported, as well as data
from three adjunctive therapy studies and two special population studies. With
unoprostone monotherapy, most adverse events were mild or moderate and transient 
in nature. Less than 7% of unoprostone-treated patients discontinued therapy due 
to an adverse event. The most common adverse events associated with unoprostone
were burning/stinging, burning/stinging directly upon drug instillation, ocular
itching, and conjunctival hyperaemia. Unoprostone had no clinically notable
effects on vital signs, laboratory profiles, or comprehensive ophthalmic
examinations. One of 659 unoprostone 0.15%-treated patients had a change in iris 
colour after 12 months of monotherapy. Except for a higher incidence of
burning/stinging and burning/stinging upon instillation, unoprostone was
comparable to timolol 0.5% twice daily and betaxolol 0.5% twice daily. No safety 
concerns were raised with use of unoprostone as adjunctive therapy. Unoprostone
had no significant effect on exercise-induced heart rate in healthy subjects or
on pulmonary function in patients with mild-to-moderate asthma. The safety
profile of unoprostone 0.15% was consistent with published information on the
0.12% formulation. In conclusion, unoprostone has an excellent safety profile in 
patients with POAG or OH.


PMID: 12113643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


597. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2002 Jun;18(3):287-91.

A retrospective review of non-responders to latanoprost.

Scherer WJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pasco Eye Institute, New Port Richey, Florida 34652, USA.

The purpose of this study was to determine the percentage of treatment-naive
glaucoma patients initially treated with latanoprost monotherapy who do not
respond with a clinically meaningful reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP). A
database search of previously untreated patients with newly diagnosed primary
open angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension or pseudoexfoliative glaucoma initially 
treated with once-daily latanoprost, 0.005% monotherapy was conducted. Charts
were randomly reviewed until 20 patients meeting inclusion criteria were
identified. Baseline IOP was compared to IOP measured 1 to 3 months after the
initiation of therapy. Intraocular pressure (+/- S.D.) following latanoprost
treatment (17.0 +/- 3.5 mm Hg) was significantly (p < 0.0005) less than baseline 
(23.9 +/- 4.2 mm Hg) in the study population. Based on our criteria of a
clinically meaningful decrease in IOP, we identified a subgroup of patients (25%)
who were non-responsive to latanoprost monotherapy. Non-responders did not differ
from responders with regard to baseline IOP or age. Although latanoprost may be
an effective IOP-lowering agent in most patients, there exists a subgroup of
patients who are unresponsive. As with any topical glaucoma agent, IOP must be
monitored regularly to confirm effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1089/108076802760116205 
PMID: 12099549  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


598. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2001 Dec;24(10):1103-9.

[When should glaucoma be surgically treated?].

[Article in French]

Baudouin C(1).

Author information: 
(1)CHNO des Quinze-Vingts, Hôpital Ambroise Paré, AP-HP, Université Paris V.

The medical treatment of primary open angle glaucoma has progressively become
more and more efficient and safe, and surgery is therefore mostly restricted to
failure of and intolerance to antiglaucoma eyedrops. Glaucoma surgery may thus
cause severe complications and a high risk of failure has tempered its
prognostic. Nevertheless, when efficacious, glaucoma surgery definitively
resolves two major pitfalls of medical treatment: patient compliance and eyedrops
tolerance. Moreover, new surgical developments of surgery have come from the new 
technique of non-penetrating deep sclerectomy, which is actually an external
trabeculectomy involving removal of the area of maximal resistance to aqueous
outflow. This procedure has a very low risk of complications, much lower than
that of standard trabeculectomy, but its efficacy is still controversial.
Whatever the technique chosen for filtering surgery, antimetabolites may be used 
in order to limit the risk of postoperative fibrosis, but they also expose to
specific, sometimes sight-threatening, complications. Therefore, the most
important--and also the most difficult--choice for treating glaucoma patients
still remains the best timing for surgery, either excessive, useless, and
aggressive medical treatment, or systematic primary surgery.


PMID: 11913244  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Ann Pharmacother. 2002 Mar;36(3):504-11.

Prostaglandin analog treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension.

Alexander CL(1), Miller SJ, Abel SR.

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy and Pharmacal Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, 
IN, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review available data related to the use of prostaglandin analogs
(bimatoprost, latanoprost, travoprost, unoprostone) in the management of ocular
hypertension and open-angle glaucoma.
DATA SOURCES: Primary and review articles were identified from a MEDLINE search
(1966-May 2001) and requested information from product manufacturers.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All available information, including that
published in articles and abstracts, which was deemed relevant was included in
this review. Limited data have been published to date.
DATA SYNTHESIS: The prostaglandin analogs appear to be effective, well-tolerated 
agents for the reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. This drug class offers an
alternative for patients who do not achieve control with another topical
antiglaucoma agent or for those with a contraindication to first-line therapy
with beta-adrenergic antagonists. Based on preliminary clinical data,
bimatoprost, latanoprost, and travoprost appear to be at least as effective as
timolol, while the effectiveness of unoprostone is similar or slightly less.
Prostaglandin analogs may be used in conjunction with other antiglaucoma
medications, although further studies must establish the optimal combination.
Whether clinical experience will yield outcomes in favor of one of the
prostaglandin analogs remains to be determined. Patients should be educated on
adverse events associated with prostaglandin analogs, particularly the potential 
for changes in the pigmentation of the iris and eyelashes.
CONCLUSIONS: Bimatoprost, latanoprost, and travoprost appear to be equivalent to 
the current standard of therapy in the topical treatment of elevated IOP. Further
clinical data published in article versus abstract format is required to better
assess potential differences among these 3 agents.


PMID: 11895065  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2002 Apr;13(2):94-6.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty: a new treatment option for open angle glaucoma.

Latina MA(1), Tumbocon JA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Fellow, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, Massachusetts,
USA. jtumbocon@aol.com

Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) is a safe and effective treatment modality 
for lowering the intraocular pressure in patients with open angle glaucoma. The
preservation of the trabecular meshwork architecture and the demonstrated
efficacy in lowering intraocular pressure makes the SLT a reasonable and safe
alternative to argon laser trabeculoplasty. In addition, SLT is a potentially
repeatable procedure because of the lack of coagulation damage to the trabecular 
meshwork and the demonstrated efficacy in patients with previously failed argon
laser trabeculoplasty treatment. Furthermore, SLT can be considered as a primary 
treatment option in patients who cannot tolerate or are noncompliant with their
glaucoma medications, while not interfering with the success of future surgery.
Due to its nondestructive properties and low complication rate, SLT has the
potential to evolve as an ideal first-line treatment in open angle glaucoma.


PMID: 11880722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2002 Apr;13(2):55-60.

Genetic basis of glaucoma.

WuDunn D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, 
USA. dwudunn@iupui.edu

The application of molecular genetic techniques to the study of glaucoma has
accelerated greatly during the past few years. In addition to localizing and
identifying genes for specific types of glaucoma, researchers have begun to
characterize the gene products and investigate molecular mechanisms involved in
glaucoma. Much research has been focused on the gene expression, protein
processing, and mutations of MYOC/TIGR, which is associated with both
juvenile-and adult-onset primary open angle glaucoma. Investigations of other
glaucoma-related genes, such as PITX2, FOXC1, and CYP1B1, are enabling a better
understanding of anterior segment development and its relation to glaucoma.


PMID: 11880716  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Ophthalmology. 2002 Mar;109(3):432-7.

Baseline visual field characteristics in the ocular hypertension treatment study.

Johnson CA(1), Keltner JL, Cello KE, Edwards M, Kass MA, Gordon MO, Budenz DL,
Gaasterland DE, Werner E; Ocular Hypertension Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Discoveries in Sight, Devers Eye Institute, Portland, Oregon.

PURPOSE: The Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study (OHTS) seeks to evaluate the
safety and efficacy of topical ocular hypotensive medication in preventing or
delaying the onset of visual field loss and/or optic nerve damage in ocular
hypertensive subjects at risk for developing primary open-angle glaucoma. This
study evaluates the baseline visual field test characteristics (visual field
status, reliability properties, etc.) of patients who underwent eligibility
visual field testing for entry to the OHTS.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study of baseline data as part of a longitudinal
randomized clinical trial.
PARTICIPANTS: Two thousand eight hundred nineteen ocular hypertensive
individuals, aged 40 to 80 (mean age, 55).
METHODS: Subjects underwent at least two Humphrey Field Analyzer Program 30-2
Full Threshold visual field examinations in both eyes for study eligibility. A
third examination was performed if a prior test was abnormal, questionable, or
unreliable. For final eligibility, two sets of visual field examinations had to
meet OHTS criteria for reliability and had to be classified as "normal." All OHTS
visual field tests of potential subjects were submitted for eligibility
assessment to the OHTS Visual Field Reading Center.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The percentage of visual fields that were normal and
reliable according to OHTS criteria.
RESULTS: Of the subset of 2304 subjects who completed the eligibility
assessments, 1828 (79%) were OHTS-eligible based on visual field test
requirements. A third eligibility test was required for 11% of all eyes because
of unreliable, questionable, or abnormal test results. With the 33% fixation loss
cutoff in the OHTS, 97% of all eligibility visual field examinations were
reliable and 3% were unreliable. The most frequent cause (69.5%) of unreliability
was excessive fixation losses.
CONCLUSIONS: Permitting one repeat test after an abnormal or unreliable test
allowed an extra 560 patients to be "eligible" for the study based on visual
field tests. A clinical screening review of otherwise normal and reliable tests
was not restrictive. The adoption of a 33% fixation loss cutoff significantly
reduced the number of required retests and prevented study rejection of 89
patients.


PMID: 11874743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Hum Mutat. 2002 Mar;19(3):189-208.

Differential occurrence of mutations causative of eye diseases in the Chinese
population.

Pang CP(1), Lam DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Hong Kong, China. cppang@cuhk.edu.hk

Ethnic differences and geographic variations affect the frequencies and nature of
human mutations. In the literature, descriptions of causative mutations of eye
diseases in the Chinese population are few. In this paper we attempt to reveal
molecular information on genetic eye diseases involving Chinese patients from
published and unpublished works by us and other groups. Our studies on candidate 
genes of eye diseases in the Chinese population in Hong Kong include MYOC and
TISR for primary open angle glaucoma, RHO and RP1 for retinitis pigmentosa, ABCA4
and APOE for age-related macular degeneration, RB1 for retinoblastoma, APC for
familial adenomatous polyposis with congenital hypertrophy of retinal pigment
epithelium, BIGH3/TGFBI for corneal dystrophies, PAX6 for aniridia and Reiger
syndrome, CRYAA and CRYBB2 for cataracts, and mtDNA for Leber hereditary optic
neuropathy. We have revealed novel mutations in most of these genes, and in RHO, 
RP1, RB1, BIGH3, and PAX6 we have reported mutations that contribute to better
understanding of the functions and properties of the respective gene products. We
showed absence of MYOC does not necessarily cause glaucoma. No disease causative 
mutations have been identified in MYOC or ABCA4. There are similarities in the
patterns of sequence alterations and phenotype-genotype associations in
comparison with other ethnic groups, while the MYOC, RB1, APC, and PAX6 genes
have more Chinese-specific sequence alterations. Establishment of a mutation
database specific for the Chinese is essential for identification of genetic
markers with diagnostic, prognostic, or pharmacological values.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.10053 
PMID: 11857735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


604. J Clin Psychiatry. 2002 Jan;63(1):15-20.

Open-label topiramate as primary or adjunctive therapy in chronic civilian
posttraumatic stress disorder: a preliminary report.

Berlant J(1), van Kammen DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Washington, Seattle, USA.
jberlant@pol.net

Comment in
    J Clin Psychiatry. 2003 Feb;64(2):219-20.

BACKGROUND: The hypothesis that exposure to traumatic events may sensitize or
kindle limbic nuclei has led to efforts to treat posttraumatic stress disorder
(PTSD) with anticonvulsants. Based on the kindling hypothesis of PTSD, this
open-label study assesses clinical response to topiramate as a potential
treatment for DSM-IV PTSD.
METHOD: A naturalistic data review was conducted of medical records of all adult 
outpatients (9 men. 26 women symptomatic for a mean +/- SD of 18 +/- 15 years
with DSM-IV chronic civilian PTSD) treated with topiramate, 12.5 to 500 mg/day,
as add-on (N = 28) or monotherapy (N = 7). The last 17 patients completed the
PTSD Checklist-Civilian Version (PCL-C) before treatment and at week 4. Dosage
titration started at 12.5 to 25 mg/day and increased in 25- to 50-mg increments
every 3 to 4 days until a therapeutic response was achieved or the drug was no
longer tolerated. The mean duration of treatment was 33 weeks (range, 1-119
weeks).
RESULTS: Topiramate decreased nightmares in 79% (19/24) and flashbacks in 86%
(30/35) of patients, with full suppression of nightmares in 50% and of intrusions
in 54% of patients with these symptoms. Nightmares or intrusions partially
improved in a median of 4 days (mean = 11 +/- 13 days) and were fully absent in a
median of 8 days (mean = 35 +/- 49 days). Response was seen in 95% of partial
responders at a dosage of 75 mg/day or less, and in 91% of full responders at a
dosage of 100 mg/day or less. Mean reductions in PCL-C score from baseline to
week 4 were highly significant (baseline score = 60 vs. week 4 score = 39, p <
.001), with similar reductions in reexperiencing, avoidance, and hyperarousal
criteria symptoms. Thirteen patients discontinued for various reasons during the 
> 2-year study period. Except for a single instance of acute secondary
narrow-angle glaucoma, there were no serious side effects.
CONCLUSION: Topiramate appeared effective as add-on or monotherapy for chronic
PTSD. It demonstrated a rapid onset of action and minimally serious, dose-related
side effects without the development of tolerance. Double-blind studies are
indicated.


PMID: 11838620  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2001 Dec;105(12):828-42.

[Open-angle glaucoma clinical presentation and management].

[Article in Japanese]

Kitazawa Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine.

Both primary open-angle and normal-tension glaucoma belong to an identical
spectrum of diseases. Clinical presentations of primary open-angle or
high-tension glaucoma (POAG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) were studied in an
attempt to determine prognostic, clinical factors and define the appropriate
management. Clinical data obtained from 826 primary open-angle and normal-tension
glaucoma patients were analyzed. In addition, the results of laboratory studies, 
including the immunological assay of heat shock protein (hsp) and gene analyses
which were undertaken to identify risk factors at the molecular level, are
discussed. 1. The identified prognostic factors were disk hemorrhage,
peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy (PPA), maximum intraocular pressure (IOP),
the recovery rate of skin temperature after exposure to cold, family history of
glaucoma, systemic systolic channel blood pressure, and oral administration of
Ca(2+)-channel antagonists. 2. Disk hemorrhage was observed in 30.5% of NTG
patients and 15.4% of POAG patients. Cumulative probability of hemorrhagic events
was 16.9% in POAG and 38.4% in NTG patients at the end of a 14.8-year follow-up. 
3. The hazard ratio of disk hemorrhage decreased with the increase of IOP(26%/5
mmHg) and was 1.46 times higher in females than in males. Disk hemorrhage was
closely associated with PPA: PPA becomes greater in association with the
progression of glaucomatous optic neuropathy in both POAG and NTG. No such
correlation was noted in primary angle-closure glaucoma. 4. Color Doppler imaging
analyses and the hourly determination of ocular perfusion pressure (OPP)
indicated a difference in retrobulbar hemodynamics between OPP-mean deviation
concordant and OPP-mean deviation discordant patients: a circulatory disturbance 
causally unrelated to OPP seems to be involved in the OPP-mean deviation
discordant patients. 5. The oral administration of Ca(2+)-channel antagonists was
shown to favorably influence retrobulbar hemodynamics in NTG patients. 6. Serum
antigen titer to hsps(hsp 27, alpha B crystallin, human & bacterial hsp 60) was
higher in both POAG and NTG patients than in normal subjects. None of the
hsp-antigens was correlated to any morphometric parameters of the optic disk or
any global indices of the visual field. 7. Myocilin mutation was noted in only
0.5% of POAG patients and 2.37% of NTG patients. The very low rate of occurrence 
precludes the value of mutation of the gene as a prognostic factor in open-angle 
glaucoma(OAG). 8. IOP reduction achieved by mitomycin-C trabeculectomy is
effective in maintaining visual function in OAG eyes. 9. Brovincamine fumarate is
effective in inhibiting the progression of glaucomatous field loss in NTG.


PMID: 11802456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


606. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2001 Nov;27(11):1854-63.

Combined surgery in the treatment of patients with cataract and primary
open-angle glaucoma.

Casson RJ(1), Salmon JF.

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Eye Hospital, United Kingdom, Oxford, UK.

The literature on combined surgery in the treatment of patients with cataract and
primary open-angle glaucoma was comprehensively studied, and all aspects and
variations of the combined procedure were assessed. Phacoemulsification has
improved the success rate and reduced the complication rate previously associated
with extracapsular cataract extraction combined with trabeculectomy. A mean
reduction in intraocular pressure (IOP) of 5 to 8 mm Hg can be achieved. One- and
2-site techniques appear to be similarly effective. Phacotrabeculectomy augmented
with mitomycin-C achieves a lower IOP than phacotrabeculectomy alone but has a
higher complication rate. The use of 5-fluorouracil is not as effective as
mitomycin-C and has a variable influence on the results. The development of new
techniques that combine nonpenetrating glaucoma surgery with phacoemulsification 
offers interesting surgical alternatives, but no long-term results have been
reported.


PMID: 11709261  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Minerva Med. 2001 Oct;92(5):365-79.

The glaucomas.

Coleman AL(1), Brigatti L.

Author information: 
(1)Jules Stein Eye Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, California, 
USA.

Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. The World
Health Organization reported in 1995 that 5.1 million persons were bilaterally
blind from glaucoma. Its morbidity and prevalence make it a significant public
health problem. Because it is a treatable condition, it is important that medical
professionals be familiar with this disease, which in most cases is not
associated with signs and symptoms that may alert the patient or the physician of
its presence. Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy that leads to blindness 
if left untreated. Risk factors include elevated intraocular pressure, advanced
age, African ancestry and positive family history. Several types of glaucomas
have been described: acute and chronic, secondary and primary. Primary (Chronic) 
Open Angle Glaucoma is the most common, with a prevalence in the USA of 1.55%.
Blacks are 4 to 5 times more affected than whites. Treatment of glaucoma consists
of topical or systemic intraocular pressure lowering agents, laser treatment or
surgery. Primary Open Angle Glaucoma is an often-unrecognized disease due to its 
slow course and lack of symptoms. Because the decline in vision may be slowed but
not restored by treatment, it is important that this condition be diagnosed early
in its course.


PMID: 11675580  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jul-Sep;11 Suppl 2:S7-11.

Neuroprotection as a treatment for glaucoma: pharmacological and immunological
approaches.

Schwartz M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot,
Israel. michal.schwartz@weizmann.ac.il

PURPOSE: Primary open-angle glaucoma is a chronic, progressive optic neuropathy
associated with a gradual decline in visual functions, which may lead to
blindness.
METHODS: In most cases, the optic neuropathy is associated with increased
intraocular pressure. However, it is now generally accepted, that normalization
of pressure, although necessary, is often not sufficient as a remedial measure.
This is because of the existence of additional risk factors, some of which emerge
as a consequence of the initial damage. This situation is reminiscent of the
response to a traumatic axonal insult: some of the damage is immediate and is
caused by the insult itself, while some is secondary and is caused by a
deficiency of growth-supportive factors as well as by toxic factors derived from 
the damaged tissue. Accordingly, we have suggested that glaucoma may be viewed as
a neurodegenerative disease and consequently is amenable to any therapeutic
intervention applicable to these diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence that neuroprotection can be achieved both
pharmacologically and immunologically. Pharmacological intervention (e.g. by
using selective alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonists) neutralizes some of the
effects of the nerve-derived toxic factors and possibly increases the ability of 
the remaining healthy neurons, at any given time, to cope with the stressful
conditions. Immunological intervention boosts the body's own repair mechanisms
for counteracting the toxicity of physiological compounds acting as stress
signals.


PMID: 11592535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Vestn Oftalmol. 2001 Jul-Aug;117(4):44-6.

[Comparative efficiency of the effects of conservative and surgical methods of
treating primary open-angle glaucoma on blood supply of the optic nerve and
retina].

[Article in Russian]

Shmeleva OA.


PMID: 11569185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


610. J Glaucoma. 2001 Aug;10(4):329-39.

The role of myocilin/TIGR in glaucoma: results of the Glaucoma Research
Foundation catalyst meeting in Berkeley, California, March 2000.

Tamm ER(1), Russell P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Molecular Anatomy and Embryology, University of
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany. ertamm@anatomie.uni-erlangen.de

Approximately 3 years ago, the first major (biochemical, molecular biologic, and 
biologic) insight into primary open-angle glaucoma was the finding that mutations
in the myocilin (MYOC/TIGR) gene were related to certain forms of juvenile onset 
of this disease. Since then, a great deal of work has been done to determine the 
possible mechanisms by which MYOC/TIGR might cause not only juvenile but also
adult-onset primary open-angle glaucoma. To assess the current knowledge and
those areas in which more research is necessary, a meeting of scientists was held
by the Glaucoma Research Foundation of San Francisco, California in the spring of
2000. This meeting attempted to concentrate on the MYOC/TIGR protein rather than 
the genetics of this gene. Possible functions and roles of this protein
intracellularly and extracellularly were critically examined and discussed.
Normal transcriptional and translational events and the effect of mutations on
these events were explored. The discussions yielded insight not only in those
areas in which important information is known but also in vital areas in which
little is currently understood. This review attempts to summarize the current
knowledge regarding MYOC/TIGR and to elucidate the points that the people
attending the meeting thought needed further study.


PMID: 11558819  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Oftalmologia. 2001;51(1):8-11.

[Physiopathology in accommodation and presbyopia, clinical and surgical
approach].

[Article in Romanian]

Stănilă A(1), Popa D.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica de Oftalmologie Sibiu.

Accommodation is a complex of phenomena by which the refracting power of the eye 
changes for focusing on near vision. Accommodative amplitude declines
progressively with increasing age. Until today, this phenomenon called presbyopia
was explained by Helmholtz's hypothezis which involves only ciliary muscle. It
seems that in accommodation are involved, besides the ciliary muscle, the lens
and extraventicular elastic components, biophysical dynamics of the lens capsule,
vitreous, iris. According with the role of these factors and theirs
pathophysiological implications, new surgical technique has developed to reverse 
presbyopia in the human eye (Surgical reversal presbyopia, Anterior ciliary
sclerotomy) and offers a potential for understanding ocular hypertension and
treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 11519341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Oftalmologia. 2000;50(4):17-27.

[Open angle glaucoma. Identification of vascular risk factors].

[Article in Romanian]

Gherghel D, Chiseliţă D.

Although the clinical picture of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is well
described, the exact mechanism leading to this specific type of damage is still
under investigation. Among the vascular risk factors, hypotension and vasospasm
seem to have an important role in the pathogenesis of this disease. This review
presents the importance of hypotension and vasospasm in the pathogenesis of POAG 
and an inventary of the principal methods for their detection.


PMID: 11392823  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Surv Ophthalmol. 2001 May;45 Suppl 3:S268-72; discussion S273-6.

In situ detection of apoptosis in normal pressure glaucoma. a preliminary
examination.

Tatton NA(1), Tezel G, Insolia SA, Nandor SA, Edward PD, Wax MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine/New York University, New
York, NY 10029, USA. Nadine.Tatton@mssm.edu

Retinal ganglion cell (RGC) neurons are believed to die via apoptosis in human
primary and secondary open-angle glaucoma. Previous studies have relied solely on
the TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine
triphosphate [UTP]-biotin nick end-labeling) method of detecting DNA
fragmentation to identify apoptotic nuclei. However, it is now clear that the
TUNEL method cannot distinguish between the single- and double-strand DNA breaks 
that can be a feature of both apoptosis and necrosis. We have developed a double 
fluorescent labeling method that simultaneously combines in situ end-labeling
(ISEL) to detect DNA fragmentation followed by staining with a cyanine dye,
YOYO-1, to visualize apoptotic chromatin condensation. This allows for the
unequivocal identification of an apoptotic nucleus. Our preliminary data obtained
from one case of normal pressure glaucoma suggests that RGC neurons may die via
apoptosis when intraocular pressure is not elevated.


PMID: 11377447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Surv Ophthalmol. 2001 May;45 Suppl 3:S250-5; discussion S273-6.

New horizons in neuroprotection.

Naskar R(1), Dreyer EB.

Author information: 
(1)Scheie Eye Institute and Department of Ophthalmology, the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide and the second leading cause
of irreversible blindness in the USA. The most common form of glaucoma, primary
open angle glaucoma, is characterized by a chronically elevated intraocular
pressure in the absence of any demonstrable structural abnormalities in the eye. 
The pathologic hallmark of glaucomatous optic neuropathy is the selective death
of retinal ganglion cells associated with structural changes in the optic nerve
head. Recent discoveries suggest a role for nitric oxide, glutamate, apoptosis,
and others, in the pathophysiology of this neuropathy. These newer discoveries
are addressed in this article.


PMID: 11377444  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2001 May;76(5):279-84.

[Incidence of encapsulated bleb after filtering surgery].

[Article in Spanish]

Gutiérrez Díaz E(1), Montero Rodríguez M, Julve San Martín A, Gálvez Ruiz A,
Mencía Gutiérrez E.

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Oftalmología, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, España.
egutierrez@hdoc.insalud.es

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence of encapsulated bleb (EB) after filtering
surgery, and the risk factors for the development of this complication,
especially those related with the surgical procedure.
METHODS: Ninety eyes that were submitted to trabeculectomy were prospectively
studied. Lens extraction was associated in 56 eyes (62.9%). All patients were
followed up for at least 3 months.
RESULTS: There were clinical characteristics of encapsulation in 29 eyes (32.3%) 
and EB with a peak IOP of 25 mmHg or higher in 14 eyes (15.7%). The incidence of 
EB formation was 20.5% in men and 11.8% in women (p.044). The incidence of EB was
higher in the trabeculectomy group alone (24.2%) than in the group in which it
was associated to cataract surgery (10.5%) (p.003). There were clinical
characteristics of encapsulation in 40.7% of primary open angle glaucoma (p.041).
EB was significantly associated with an increased failure rate (21.4%) when
compared to normal blebs (5.55% failure rate) (p<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The encapsulated bleb is significantly more frequent in the male
gender and thick conjunctivas and in trabeculectomy alone versus trabeculectomy
associated to cataract surgery. It means a significantly greater risk of failure 
after surgery in the short term.


PMID: 11373702  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Cas Lek Cesk. 2000 Aug 16;139(16):494-6.

[Laser trabeculoplasty--present and future perspectives].

[Article in Czech]

Vlková E(1), Svacinová J.

Author information: 
(1)Ocní klinika LF MU, Brno Ocní klinika FN, Brno-Bohunice.

Laser trabeculoplasty has been used in the treatment of various types of glaucoma
for nearly 20 years. It's intraocular pressure lowering effect through
enhancement of aqueous outflow is well documented. In spite of this, the precise 
effect of laser trabeculoplasty in the trabecular meshwork is only partially
understood. It is related to laser wave length, laser power, burns location,
number of shots etc. The effectiveness of laser trabeculoplasty diminishes over
time, but can be renewed with re-treatment. Laser trabeculoplasty has connected
with minimum complications and it is most effective in patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma, pigmentary glaucoma and the exfoliation syndrome glaucoma,
though the long-term results of this microsurgery laser treatment are not quite
indisputable.


PMID: 11338765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2001 Apr;105(4):205-12.

[Autoimmune mechanisms in molecular pathology of glaucomatous optic neuropathy].

[Article in Japanese]

Maruyama I(1), Nakazawa M, Ohguro H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hirosaki University School of Medicine, 5
Zaifu-cho, Hirosaki 036-8562, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Glaucomatous optic neuropathy is characterized by loss of retinal
ganglion cells and their axons, excavated appearance of the optic nerve head, and
progressive loss of visual field sensitivity. In terms of pathology of the
glaucomatous optic neuropathy, observations suggest retinal ganglion cell death
by apoptosis. Deprivation of neurotrophic factors, ischemia, chronic elevation of
glutamate, and disorganized nitric oxide metabolism have been suspected to be
mechanisms triggering apoptosis. Another recent suggestion is that autoantibodies
directed toward retinal antigens may be involved in facilitating apoptotic cell
death in some glaucoma patients.
METHOD: We summarized previous reports dealing with the relationship between
glaucoma etiology and autoimmune responses, and investigated the contribution of 
autoimmune factors in glaucomatous optic neuropathy using electrophysiological
and biochemical methods.
RESULTS: We found serum anti-neuron specific enolase(NSE) antibody in
approximately 20% of our glaucoma patients. In primary open angle glaucoma,
maximum and mean intraocular pressures in antibody positive patients were
significantly or relatively lower than pressures in antibody negative patients.
In addition, we also found that apoptotic cell death of retinal ganglion cells
was induced in rat eyes by intravitreal administration of purified anti-NSE
antibody.
CONCLUSION: As suggested by previous reports, autoimmune response is one of the
mechanisms related to glaucoma etiology and NSE may have an important function as
an autoantigen.


PMID: 11329942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


618. J Glaucoma. 2001 Apr;10(2):133-5.

Dorzolamide-induced immune thrombocytopenia: a case report and literature review.

Martin XD(1), Danese M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital, Zurich, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To report a severe case of dorzolamide-induced immune thrombocytopenia, 
to review the literature on this topic, and to draw attention to the serious
potential side effects of this topical sulfonamide.
CASE REPORT: An 83-year-old man with primary open-angle glaucoma in both eyes who
was taking topical dorzolamide therapy for 3.5 years developed a severe
thrombocytopenia (10,000 platelets/microL). The amount of platelets was not
influenced by prednisone therapy but increased rapidly to 100,000/microL after
the withdrawal of dorzolamide.
LITERATURE REVIEW: Although the potential capacity of sulfonamides to induce
thrombocytopenia is well known, no case of dorzolamide-induced immune
thrombocytopenia was published in the medical literature until July 2000.
CONCLUSION: Considering the possible severe side effects that can be induced by
topical dorzolamide 2%, ophthalmologists should carefully evaluate during the
medical history of their patients the risk of sensitivity to sulfonamides.


PMID: 11316096  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 2000;Suppl:37-44.

[Cataract surgery in primary open angle glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Galand A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie C.H.U. Sart-Tilman B-4000 Liège.

Cataract surgery has a moderate lowering effect on the intraocular pressure. When
glaucoma seems controlled by medication, phacoemulsification gives a chance of
improving the situation. Those eyes are most likely to get an intraocular
pressure rise by retention of visco-elastic substance.


PMID: 11262886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Vestn Oftalmol. 2000 Sep-Oct;116(5):24-7.

[Pathogenetic factors of destructive process in trabecular tissues in primary
open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Bunin AIa.

Trabecular endothelium and collagen fibers of the posterior wall of Schlemm's
channel, obtained in sinusotrabeculectomy from patients with various stages of
primary open-angle glaucoma were examined by electron microscopic and biochemical
methods. Endothelial cell destruction, damage, rejection, and dissociation in
intertrabecular space, progressing in severity, were observed. "Denudation" and
degradation of collagen fibers and fibrils were observed. The content of lipid
peroxides in aqueous humor and blocks of Schlemm's channel trabecular wall
increased from stage to stage, while the level of biogenic antioxidant
glutathione decreased.


PMID: 11221373  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2001 Apr;12(2):124-30.

Exfoliation syndrome.

Ritch R(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Glaucoma Service, Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear
Infirmary, New York, New York 10003, USA. ritch@inx.net

Exfoliation syndrome (XFS) is an age-related disorder of the extracellular matrix
characterized by production and progressive accumulation of small, white deposits
of a fibrillar extracellular material in many ocular tissues, most commonly seen 
on the pupillary border and anterior lens capsule. Characteristic signs of
pigment liberation and deposition throughout the anterior segment aid in the
diagnosis. Exfoliation syndrome predisposes to both open-angle and angle-closure 
glaucoma, and to capsular rupture, zonular dehiscence, and vitreous loss during
cataract extraction. Exfoliation syndrome is associated with ocular and perhaps
systemic ischemia. The exact chemical composition of exfoliation material remains
unknown. Medical, laser, and surgical therapy are similar to treatment of primary
open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 11224719  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Drugs Aging. 2000 Dec;17(6):477-96.

Topical dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5%: a review of its use in the treatment of
open-angle glaucoma.

Ormrod D(1), McClellan K.

Author information: 
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

The nonselective beta-blocker timolol and the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor
dorzolamide both lower intraocular pressure (IOP). Timolol and dorzolamide have
different mechanisms of action and their effects are additive when administered
together. Therefore, the 2 drugs are frequently used concomitantly to treat
patients with open-angle glaucoma who have not adequately responded to first-line
therapy. A barrier to good compliance with concomitant therapy is the need to
administer 5 or 6 drops of medication on 2 or 4 occasions during the day. Timolol
0.5% and dorzolamide 2.0% have therefore been combined in a single formulation,
reducing the number of administrations required to 2 per day. Clinical trials in 
patients with glaucoma have demonstrated that dorzolamide 2%/timolol 0.5%
(dorzolamide/timolol) is superior to monotherapy with the individual components. 
When dorzolamide/timolol administered twice daily was compared with concomitant
treatment with dorzolamide 2% and timolol 0.5%, each administered twice daily for
90 days, both regimens resulted in marked lowering of trough IOP (measured just
before the morning dose) compared with baseline (reduction in IOP = 4.2mm Hg).
The effect of the 2 regimens on IOP at all time points, both before treatment and
at peak effect (2 hours after treatment), were virtually indistinguishable. When 
the combined formulation was compared with a concomitant regimen that included
dorzolamide 2% 3 times daily and timolol 0.5% twice daily the concomitant regimen
was slightly more efficacious than the combined regimen at trough after 90 days: 
IOP was lowered by 3.6mm Hg in the combined group versus 4.1 mm Hg in the
concomitant group. Dorzolamide/timolol has been compared with concomitant
administration of timolol 0.5% and the IOP lowering miotic drug, pilocarpine
2.0%. This non-blind patient-preference study found that both regimens reduced
IOP. However, the dorzolamide/timolol combination was preferred by the patients
because of reduced frequency and severity of adverse effects and less frequent
administration. Dorzolamide/timolol was well tolerated in clinical trials, the
adverse effects reflected those of the individual components, and no additional
tolerability issues were identified. However, the potential for timolol to cause 
cardiorespiratory effects must be considered when prescribing this combination.
Furthermore, dorzolamide is a sulfonamide and can cause allergic reactions in
those who are hypersensitive to this class of drug.CONCLUSIONS:
Dorzolamide/timolol is a well tolerated and effective fixed combination for
lowering IOP in the treatment of open-angle glaucoma and is likely to be useful
in those patients who do not respond adequately to first-line monotherapy.
Compared with concomitant therapy with the same 2 drugs the primary advantage is 
convenience, which may lead to improved compliance. Studies of compliance and
comparisons with other currently available combination therapies would be useful 
to fully define the value of the formulation. Nonetheless, dorzolamide combined
with timolol in a single applicator system will be a useful addition to the
treatment options for glaucoma, a leading cause of preventable blindness.


PMID: 11200308  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Surv Ophthalmol. 2001 Jan-Feb;45(4):265-315.

Exfoliation syndrome.

Ritch R(1), Schlötzer-Schrehardt U.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear
Infirmary, 310 East 14th Street, New York, NY, USA.

Exfoliation syndrome (XFS) is an age-related disease in which abnormal fibrillar 
extracellular material is produced and accumulates in many ocular tissues. Its
ocular manifestations involve all of the structures of the anterior segment, as
well as conjunctiva and orbital structures. Glaucoma occurs more commonly in eyes
with XFS than in those without it; in fact, XFS has recently been recognized as
the most common identifiable cause of glaucoma. Patients with XFS are also
predisposed to develop angle-closure glaucoma, and glaucoma in XFS has a more
serious clinical course and worse prognosis than primary open-angle glaucoma.
There is increasing evidence for an etiological association of XFS with cataract 
formation, and possibly with retinal vein occlusion. XFS is now suspected to be a
systemic disorder and has been associated preliminarily with transient ischemic
attacks, stroke, systemic hypertension, and myocardial infarction. Further
ramifications await discovery. Deposits of white material on the anterior lens
surface are the most consistent and important diagnostic feature of XFS. The
classic pattern consists of three distinct zones that become visible when the
pupil is fully dilated. Whereas the classic picture of manifest XFS has been
often described, the early stages of beginning exfoliation have not been well
defined. Next to the lens, exfoliation material is most prominent at the
pupillary border. Pigment loss from the iris sphincter region and its deposition 
on anterior chamber structures is a hallmark of XFS. Despite extensive research, 
the exact chemical composition of exfoliation material (XFM) remains unknown. An 
overproduction and abnormal metabolism of glycosaminoglycans have been suggested 
as one of the key changes in XFS. The protein components of XFM include both
noncollagenous basement membrane components and epitopes of the elastic fiber
system such as fibrillium. Regardless of etiology, typical exfoliation fibers
have been demonstrated electron microscopically in close association with the
pre-equatorial lens epithelium, the nonpigmented ciliary epithelium, the iris
pigment epithelium, the corneal endothelium, the trabecular endothelium, and with
almost all cell types of the iris stroma, such as fibrocytes, melanocytes,
vascular endothelial cells, pericytes, and smooth muscle cells. The presence of
XFS should alert the physician to the increased risks of intraocular surgery,
most commonly zonular dehiscence, capsular rupture, and vitreous loss during
cataract extraction. Heightened awareness of this condition and its associated
clinical signs are important in the detection and management of glaucoma, and
preoperative determination of those patients at increased risk for surgical
complications.


PMID: 11166342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2001 Feb;12(1):30-34.

Intra-ocular lens implantation in children.

Ahmadieh H(1), Javadi MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Labbafinejad Medical Center, Tehran, Iran.
labbafi@hotmail.com

Intra-ocular lens (IOL) implantation in a growing eye of a young child brings
several problems unique to this age group. Better understanding of the rate of
refractive growth in children's pseudophakic eyes may help predicting future
refractions in these eyes more accurately. Opacification of the posterior
capsule, if remained intact, interferes with visual rehabilitation in children.
Primary posterior capsulectomy and anterior vitrectomy provides the clarity of
visual axis. Optical rehabilitation of children with unilateral aphakia is
usually problematic. Posterior chamber IOLs are preferred to anterior-chamber
IOLs for secondary implantation. In the absence of adequate capsular support and 
contact lens intolerance, a scleral-fixated IOL can be implanted. Scleral
fixation of a posterior chamber IOL has encouraging short-term results but the
long-term risks are not known yet. Intra-ocular lens implantation in infants is
associated with major complications and is not recommended at present. The
occurrence of open angle glaucoma is a sight-threatening late complication of
pediatric cataract surgery. Intra-ocular lens implantation plays a protective
role against aphakic glaucoma in children.


PMID: 11150078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2000 Sep;38(9):819-25.

Hunting for disease genes in multi-functional diseases.

Pang CP(1), Baum L, Lam DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, China. cppang@cuhk.edu.hk

Disease genes may be identified through functional, positional, and candidate
gene approaches. Although extensive and often labor-intensive studies such as
family linkage analysis, functional investigation of gene products and genome
database searches are usually involved, thousands of human disease genes,
especially for monogenic diseases with Mendelian transmission, have been
identified. However, in diseases caused by more than one gene, or by a
combination of genetic and environmental factors, identification of the genes is 
even more difficult. Common examples include atherosclerosis, cancer, Alzheimer's
disease, asthma, diabetes, glaucoma, and age-related macular degeneration. There 
have been conflicting reports on the roles of associated genes. Even with
population-based case-control studies and new statistical methods such as the
sib-ship disequilibrium test and the discordant alleles test, there is no
agreement on whether alpha2-macroglobulin (A2M) is a gene for Alzheimer's
disease. Another example is the inconsistent association between age-related
macular degeneration and ATP-binding cassette transporter (ABCR). Ethnic
variation causes further complications. In our investigation of LDL-receptor
variants in familial hypercholesterolemia, and the trabecular meshwork inducible 
glucocorticoid response protein, or myocillin (TIGR-MYOC) mutation pattern in
primary open angle glaucoma, we did find dissimilar results in Chinese compared
to Caucasians. New information from the Human Genome Project and advancements in 
technologies will aid the search for and confirm identification of disease genes 
despite such challenges.

DOI: 10.1515/CCLM.2000.118 
PMID: 11097334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Br J Ophthalmol. 2000 Nov;84(11):1218-24.

Glaucoma incidence in an unselected cohort of diabetic patients: is diabetes
mellitus a risk factor for glaucoma? DARTS/MEMO collaboration. Diabetes Audit and
Research in Tayside Study. Medicines Monitoring Unit.

Ellis JD(1), Evans JM, Ruta DA, Baines PS, Leese G, MacDonald TM, Morris AD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Ninewells 
Road, Dundee DD1 9SY, UK. JDE@14ing.freeserve.co.uk

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2000 Nov;84(11):1216.

AIMS: To evaluate whether diabetes mellitus is a risk factor for the development 
of primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension (OHT).
METHODS: A historical cohort study of an unselected population comprising all
residents of the Tayside region of Scotland was performed using record linkage
techniques followed by case note review. Ascertainment of prevalent diabetes was 
achieved using the Diabetes Audit and Research in Tayside Study (DARTS) validated
regional diabetes register. Glaucoma and treated OHT were defined by encashment
of community prescriptions and the statutory surgical procedure coding database.
RESULTS: The study population comprised 6631 diabetic subjects and 166 144
non-diabetic subjects aged >40 years without glaucoma or OHT at study entry. 65
patients with diabetes and 958 without diabetes were identified as new cases of
glaucoma or treated OHT during the 24 month study period, yielding a standardised
morbidity ratio of 127 (95% CI, 96-158). Case note review demonstrated
non-differential misclassification of prevalent glaucoma and OHT as incident
disease (diabetic cohort 20%, non-diabetic cohort 24%; p=0.56) primarily as a
result of non-compliance in medically treated disease. Removing misclassified
cases and adjusting for age yielded an incidence of primary open angle glaucoma
in diabetes of 1.1/1000 patient years (95% CI, 0.89-1. 31) compared to 0.7/1000
patient years (95% CI, 0.54-0.86) in the non-diabetic cohort; RR 1.57 (95% CI,
0.99-2.48).
CONCLUSIONS: This study failed to confirm an association between diabetes
mellitus and primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. A
non-significant increase in diagnosed and treated disease in the diabetic
population was observed, but evidence was also found that detection bias
contributes to this association.


PMCID: PMC1723322
PMID: 11049943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Eye (Lond). 2000 Jun;14 ( Pt 3B):531-5.

Sinusotomy and deep sclerectomy.

Mermoud A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.

Non-penetrating filtering surgery (NPFS) started in 1962 with the first
sinusotomy performed by Kraznov. At that time, the author of this new technique
believed that the outflow resistance in the majority of cases of primary
open-angle glaucoma was located at the level of scleral aqueous drainage veins
and not in the trabeculum. He therefore developed a safe NPFS technique, leaving 
in place the trabeculum and the inner wall of Schlemm's canal. Because of
difficulties with the microsurgical technique and the small reduction in
intraocular pressure (IOP) compared with trabeculectomy, sinusotomy was
abandoned. In the last decade, with the widespread use of operating microscopes, 
NPFS has been the subject of renewed interest. IOP reduction with the new NPFS
techniques is comparable to that obtained with trabeculectomy, with significantly
lower pre- and post-operative complications. The new NPFS techniques such as deep
sclerectomy, ab externo trabeculectomy and viscocanalostomy present definitively 
different mechanisms of filtration compared with early sinusotomy. This article
will review the history of NPFS as well as describing the different new
non-penetrating filtering surgeries.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2000.140 
PMID: 11026983  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Eye (Lond). 2000 Jun;14 ( Pt 3B):429-36.

The genetics of open-angle glaucoma: the story of GLC1A and myocilin.

Alward WL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City
52242-1091, USA. wallace-alward@uiowa.edu

A linkage analysis study was performed on a single large family with
juvenile-onset primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). This led to the recognition
that there was a region of chromosome 1q that harboured a gene for juvenile-onset
POAG. This chromosomal site was called GLC1A. It was discovered that a gene that 
produces the protein myocilin resides within this interval and that mutations in 
myocilin caused most cases of autosomal dominant juvenile-onset POAG. More
importantly myocilin mutations also cause up to 4.6% of cases of adult-onset
POAG. The prevalence of myocilin mutations is similar regardless of race or
geographic location. There are widely variable glaucoma phenotypes depending on
the specific mutation in myocilin. Myocilin is expressed in multiple tissues
throughout the eye and in many other organs. In the trabecular meshwork the
production of myocilin can be induced by the application of topical
corticosteroids. The exact function of myocilin in health and disease remains a
mystery.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2000.127 
PMID: 11026970  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Practitioner. 2000 Jul;244(1612):654-8.

The patient with primary open-angle glaucoma.

Grierson I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Liverpool.


PMID: 10954981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Doc Ophthalmol. 1999;98(3):285-99.

The treatment of newly diagnosed patients with glaucoma or with ocular
hypertension in The Netherlands: an observational study of costs and initial
treatment success based on retrospective chart review.

Oostenbrink JB(1), Rutten-van Mölken MP, Opdenoordt TS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The
Netherlands. oostenbrink@bmg.eur.nl

To determine the health care resource use and costs of patients with glaucoma or 
ocular hypertension in the Netherlands during the first 2 years after primary
diagnosis, we performed a study based on retrospective chart review. Data of 200 
patients and their health care resource use were collected in five hospitals.
Unit-prices were calculated using micro costing in two hospitals. The mean 2-year
costs per patient were estimated to be US$ 877. Outpatient visits to the
ophthalmologist and medications were the cost-driving factors, and were
responsible for 40 and 30% of total costs, respectively. Total costs were
considered to be low, when compared to the estimated costs per patient in Sweden 
and the USA. In multiple least-squares regression only baseline IOP-value, the
change in IOP-value between baseline and the next visit and the hospital of
treatment were significantly related with total costs. The variation in costs
between patients largely depended on whether or not a patient had undergone
surgery.


PMID: 10945448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Harefuah. 1998 Apr 15;134(8):631-3.

[Initial treatment of primary open angle glaucoma: medication, laser or
surgery?].

[Article in Hebrew]

Blumenthal EZ, Ticho U.


PMID: 10911429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Telemed J. 1999 Fall;5(3):283-90.

Telemedicine screening of glaucoma.

Li HK(1), Tang RA, Oschner K, Koplos C, Grady J, Crump WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Texas Medical
Branch, Galveston, Texas, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Glaucoma is a major cause of blindness. More than 80,000 Americans
suffer permanent vision loss from the disease. Widespread screening is
fundamental in limiting the incidence of glaucoma-associated blindness. This
pilot study explored the use of stereo digital images taken at a primary care
center for telemedicine review by an off-site specialist as a means of screening 
for glaucoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-two diabetic patients were screened at a family
medicine clinic. None had previously been diagnosed with glaucoma. A senior
optometry student took stereoscopic digital and 35-mm optic disc photographs with
a nonmydriatic retinal camera. The digital images were forwarded to a remote
ophthalmologist for review. The conventional color stereo slide pairs of the same
eyes were subsequently reviewed for comparison. Agreement on signs of
glaucomatous disc changes between the two imaging systems was analyzed.
RESULTS: Twenty-six of 32 eyes' digital and 35-mm photographs were analyzed. Six 
of 32 eyes (18.8%) could not be compared due to lack of matching 35-mm slides or 
digital images. Out of 26 eyes, lamina cribosa visibility was undeterminable in 8
eyes' digital images and 3 other eyes' 35-mm slides. Agreement among digital
images and 35-mm slides of the remaining eyes was: 100%-vertical elongation,
barring of vessels, bayoneting of vessels, and drance hemorrhage; 96.2%-focus
notching of rim and rim pallor; 93.3%-lamina cribosa visability; 92. 3%-overpass 
cupping; 88.5%-focal enlargement; 84.6%-parapapillary halo; 80%-nerve fiber
visibility; 65.4%-parapapillary atrophy. Parapapillary halo (p = 0.046) and nerve
fiber layer visibility (p = 0.18) were detected on some 35-mm slides but not seen
on matching digital views.
CONCLUSION: Evaluations of cup-to-disc ratio (C/D) using both methods were in
general agreement. However, some digital images were noted as too dark for
assessing fine glaucomatous disc changes. Stereo digital images taken with a
nonmydriatic camera by nonophthalmic photographers is a promising alternative for
glaucoma screening in primary care settings. Telemedicine offers efficient
communications with off-site glaucoma specialists. A larger study population is
necessary to determine the overall effectiveness of using stereo digital imagery 
and teleophthalmology for glaucoma screening.

DOI: 10.1089/107830299312032 
PMID: 10908442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Arch Ophthalmol. 2000 Jul;118(7):974-8.

Myocilin and glaucoma: A TIGR by the tail?

Johnson DH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
johnson.douglas@mayo.edu

In 1997, Stone and 14 colleagues from 7 laboratories reported the identification 
of a gene (TIGR) associated with juvenile open-angle glaucoma (JOAG). Screening
of adults with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) revealed that about 4% also
carried a mutation of the coding region of this gene. The mutations were found
through genetic linkage analysis of families with JOAG. Juvenile open-angle
glaucoma was a logical starting point in the search for genetic causes of
open-angle glaucoma: it shows a strong autosomal-dominant inheritance pattern,
occurs at an early age, demonstrates obvious phenotypic signs (dramatic elevation
of intraocular pressure and subsequent optic nerve damage), and is likely to be
found in multiple generations as parents of affected children are still living.
These factors, however, also serve to distinguish it from adult-onset POAG, which
generally has a lower intraocular pressure and a less severe course. The
discovery of the actual gene represented a true advance over previous studies
that had mapped the gene to a segment of a chromosome but did not identify the
specific gene. How the mutant gene causes glaucoma is unknown and is the subject 
of intense research. To date, 26 mutations in the TIGR gene sequence (the term
TIGR has been replaced by the term myocilin, abbreviated MYOC) have been
described, all associated with either JOAG or adult-onset POAG. A correlation
between specific mutations in MYOC and the clinical course of glaucoma has been
found. Not all cases of JOAG or POAG have mutations in the MYOC gene, however,
indicating that more discoveries of other genes are yet to come. Arch Ophthalmol.
2000;118:974-978


PMID: 10900113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Klin Oczna. 2000;102(1):9-12.

[Genetic studies on primary open angle glaucoma].

[Article in Polish]

Szaflik J(1), Ambroziak AM, Bal J, Gacek M.

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki II Wydziału Lekarskiego AM w Warszawie.

Case work presents the newest studies on molecular genetics in primary open angle
glaucoma. The molecular genetics in all types of glaucoma have been a subject of 
investigations for the last few years. As a result, two loci (GLC3A and GLC3B)
have been identified for primary congenital glaucoma, one locus (GLC1A) for
juvenile primary open angle glaucoma and further two loci (GLC1B and GLC1C) for
adult-onset primary open angle glaucoma. The gene TIGR (trabecular meshwork
inducible glucocorticoid response protein) localised in GLC1A was described last 
year for the first time, thereafter there were trials on mutations within this
gene conducted successfully. In this review there are studies presenting the
mapping of the first five GLC loci and identification of mutations.


PMID: 10878949  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2000 May;115(5):280-6.

[Pharmacological profiles of latanoprost (Xalatan), a novel anti-glaucoma drug].

[Article in Japanese]

Nomura S(1), Hashimoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Research Department, Pharmacia & Upjohn, Tokyo, Japan.

Latanoprost is a novel prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha) derivative. Topically 
applied latanoprost into the glaucomatous monkey eyes lowered intraocular
pressure (IOP). Latanoprost, however, failed to produce the hypotensive effect in
either rabbit or cat eyes. This species difference may be attributed to its high 
selectivity for the FP receptor and differences in prostaglandin receptor
subtypes existed in the eye amongst these species. In ligand binding studies with
bovine corpus luteum cell membranes, the Kd value for the FP receptor of
latanoprost was the same as that for PGF2 alpha, 2.8 nM. Latanoprost augmented
uveoscleral outflow (Uv) in monkeys without affecting trabecular outflow or
outflow facility like PGF2 alpha. Although the precise mechanism of the increase 
in Uv is not fully understood, it is suggested that a decrease in extracellular
matrix components in ciliary muscle may contribute to the increase in Uv. On the 
other hand, an increase in blood flow at the optic nerve head and neuroprotective
action in addition to the IOP lowering effect may contribute to the efficacy of
latanoprost in glaucoma therapy. Only tolerable conjunctival hyperemia was seen
in rabbits. A phase III clinical trial revealed latanoprost (0.005%) once daily
produced sustained reduction of IOP in ocular hypertension or primary open-angle 
glaucoma patients to a greater extent than timolol did. Furthermore, the effects 
of latanoprost on aqueous humor dynamics in normal human volunteers were similar 
to those in monkeys, indicating that latanoprost lowers IOP by the increase in Uv
in humans.


PMID: 10872179  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2000 Apr;11(2):151-7.

Nonpenetrating filtering surgery in glaucoma.

Mermoud A(1), Schnyder CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.

Since 1967, trabeculectomy has been the standard drainage operation for most
cases of medically uncontrolled glaucoma. It is associated with significant risk 
of hypotony, hyphema, choroidal effusion or hemorrhage, and bleb failure. Toward 
the goal of a safer and more reproducible glaucoma filtering surgery,
nonperforating filtering surgeries are now performed in primary open-angle
glaucoma, normal-pressure glaucoma, and most cases of secondary glaucoma. The
site of highest resistance to outflow, the juxtacanalicular trabecular meshwork, 
is bypassed with avoidance of penetration into the anterior chamber. Different
techniques of nonpenetrating filtering surgeries are discussed here.


PMID: 10848223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2000 Apr;11(2):145-50.

Is there a role for the immune system in glaucomatous optic neuropathy?

Wax MB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Glaucoma and immunity are not traditionally perceived as being causally related. 
Recently, however, compelling observations have provided insight into a potential
role for the immune system in the development of glaucomatous optic neuropathy.
In this article, it is proposed that the role of the immune system in glaucoma is
two-fold. In some patients, there is evidence that an autoimmune mechanism may be
responsible for eliciting damage to the optic nerve, resulting in glaucomatous
injury. Autoimmune damage to the optic nerve may occur directly by
autoantibodies, or indirectly by way of a "mimicked" autoimmune response to a
sensitizing antigen which, in turn, injuries retinal ganglion cells. We suggest
that autoimmune-mediated glaucoma injury occurs most often, but not exclusively, 
in patients in whom the intraocular pressure has never been found to be elevated.
A second role of the immune system in glaucoma is likely one of surveillance, in 
which signal pathways of the immune system regulate cell death in response to
conditions that stress retinal neurons in glaucoma. These might include
mechanical stress from high intraocular pressure, ischemia, excessive excitatory 
amino acids, or toxic products resulting from excessive nitric oxide synthase
production in either neurons or glial fibers that surround the optic nerve as it 
exits the eye. In these cases, we propose that the immune system acts as an
"arbiter" to help determine whether a neuronal cell will ultimately survive, or
succumb to, those stressors that are perceived as injurious. It is conceivable
that such surveillance and cell death regulation by the immune system is
important in determining the fate of retinal neurons in both the more common
"high-pressure" forms of glaucoma, such as primary open-angle glaucoma, and in
cases in which the intraocular pressure appears within normal range.


PMID: 10848222  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2000 Apr;11(2):140-4.

Psychophysical examination of paracentral defects in glaucoma.

Bodis-Wollner I(1), Brannan JR.

Author information: 
(1)State University of New York, Health Science Center at Brooklyn, New York
11203, USA.

More than 50% of ganglion cells may be damaged before visual field loss is
measurable by conventional methods in primary open angle glaucoma. There is
general agreement on the need to improve early diagnosis of visual field loss in 
primary open angle glaucoma. In this article, new techniques that enlist
measurement of paracentral regions are discussed, and the ability of each method 
to detect visual field loss prior to perimetric loss is described.


PMID: 10848221  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2000 Apr;11(2):116-20.

The optic nerve head in normal-tension glaucoma.

Tomita G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.
gtom-gif@umin.ac.jp

There is controversy over the definition, appearance, and characteristics of the 
optic nerve head in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). Optic disk size is greater in 
eyes with NTG than in those with primary open-angle glaucoma. However, in an
intraindividual bilateral comparison, the eye with the larger optic disk showed
neither more marked nor less pronounced glaucomatous optic nerve damage. Optic
disk hemorrhage and peripapillary atrophy have been reported to be more frequent 
in patients with NTG. Nonuse of calcium channel blockers, peripapillary atrophy, 
and disk hemorrhage were statistically significantly associated with visual field
loss progression in NTG. However, there is a possibility that a high IOP may stop
disk hemorrhage relatively early. Histopathologic optic nerve head changes
correlated with the clinical appearance of the optic nerve head, which is
comparable in NTG and primary open-angle glaucoma. However, as novel findings,
serum antibodies to retinal proteins and retinal immunoglobulin deposition in the
ganglion cells were observed, and the level of serum autoantibodies to optic
nerve head glycosaminoglycans was higher in patients with NTG than in patients
with primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 10848217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2000 Apr;11(2):101-6.

Heredity in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Budde WM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Friedrich-Alexander Universität
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany. wido.budde@augen.med.uni-erlangen.de

The past years have seen considerable progress in the characterization of
hereditary factors in primary open-angle glaucoma. Epidemiologic studies
strengthened our knowledge of the hereditary factors in this multifactorial
disease. Several loci in the human genome have been described, which segregate
with different glaucoma phenotypes. Mutations of the MYOC/TIGR
(myocilin/trabecular meshwork inducible glucocorticoid response) gene on
chromosome 1q account for most, but probably not all, cases of glaucoma linked to
chromosome 1q, and other additional pathologic factors may be implicated. The
properties of the normal myocilin protein point to a crucial role in the
regulation of intraocular pressure. However, in spite of the knowledge obtained
so far, routinely performed genetic screening of patients at risk for primary
open-angle glaucoma is not yet clinically useful.


PMID: 10848214  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Semin Ophthalmol. 1999 Sep;14(3):171-9.

Advances in molecular genetics of glaucoma: a perspective for the clinician.

Damji KF(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Ottawa Eye Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada.

Extraordinary progress has been made over the last 5 years in improving our
understanding of the molecular causes of various glaucomas. Identification of the
myocilin gene and of 5 additional genetic loci that play a role in development of
primary open angle glaucoma provides us with an opportunity to reclassify this
complex phenotype based on underlying cause of disease. Clinicians who obtain a
detailed family history from their patients and who have referred families with
glaucoma to laboratory investigators are at the forefront of this revolution in
molecular genetics. As a result, all clinicians will soon be poised to profit
from genetic discoveries by being able to order diagnostic tests that will
identify specific genetic mutations. These mutations will provide a detailed
understanding of the natural history of the patient's glaucoma, as well as
information for genetic counseling. Individuals at risk in the family will be
able to be identified, permitting closer follow-up and earlier institution of
glaucoma therapy. A new understanding of pathophysiology is developing and will
provide the basis for more rational pharmacological and gene therapy approaches
in the future. The hope of primary prevention for various glaucomas, once a
distant dream, may become reality within our lifetimes.

DOI: 10.153/SOPH01400171 
PMID: 10790582  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Semin Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;14(2):95-108.

Glaucomatous versus nonglaucomatous optic disc cupping: clinical differentiation.

Greenfield DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami 
School of Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.

Cupping of the optic nerve head associated with normal intraocular pressure (IOP)
is a common clinical presentation for which clearly defined management guidelines
have not been established. The clinical approach represents a diagnostic
challenge because the mechanism of optic nerve injury is often difficult to
objectively establish. Of paramount importance is the primary distinction between
physiologic cupping and pathologic cupping, and the accurate subclassification of
eyes with pathologic cupping. Therefore, it is essential for clinicians to
differentiate glaucomatous from nonglaucomatous disc damage. This article reviews
the clinical differentiation of eyes with glaucomatous and nonglaucomatous optic 
disc cupping.

DOI: 10.1053/SOPH01400095 
PMID: 10758217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2000 May;19(3):345-68.

Exfoliation syndrome and exfoliation glaucoma.

Vesti E(1), Kivelä T.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Central
Hospital, Finland.

Exfoliation syndrome abnormal deposition in the anterior segment of the eye of an
unknown substance thought to be related to elastic fibres and basement membrane
components is associated with accelerated cataract progression. increased
frequency of intraoperative and postoperative complications and increased risk
for glaucoma and. therefore, is a clinically important finding. A clear
association has been shown with age. The syndrome occurs worldwide but its
prevalence seems to vary from country to country. The best-known sign of
exfoliation syndrome is deposits of greyish-white material on the anterior lens
surface. Sometimes exfoliation material can also be seen at the pupillary border,
on the anterior iris surface, corneal endothelium, and on the anterior vitreous
face. When clinically detected, exfoliation syndrome is somewhat more often
unilateral than bilateral. According to recent investigations clinically
unilateral exfoliation syndrome is probably never truly unilateral but rather
asymmetric, because exfoliation material has been detected ultrastructurally and 
immunohistochemically around iris blood vessels of the nonexfoliative fellow
eyes. Indeed, electron microscopy identifies in various organs of patients with
exfoliation syndrome fibrils similar to those seen in intraocular exfoliation
deposits. Other clinical signs associated with exfoliation syndrome are pigment
dispersion, transillumination defects of the iris and reduced response to
mydriatics. In unilateral exfoliation syndrome, intraocular pressure (IOP) of the
exfoliative eye is approximately 2 mmHg higher than IOP of the nonexfoliative
fellow eye. Whether elevated IOP, vascular changes or exfoliation syndrome itself
is the main factor causing optic nerve head damage and conversion of an
exfoliative eye to glaucomatous, is not known. Glaucoma in the exfoliation
syndrome has been shown to have a more serious clinical course than in primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG). At the time of diagnosis, IOP and its diurnal
variation are generally higher and visual field defects tend to be greater in
exfoliation glaucoma than in POAG. Because the decrease in lOP variation and
lowering of the mean IOP level has been shown to improve visual field prognosis
more in exfoliation glaucoma than in POAG, the glaucomatous process is considered
to be more pressure-related in exfoliation glaucoma. Furthermore, progression of 
optic disc damage has been shown to be similar in exfoliation glaucoma and POAG
when lOPs are lowered to a comparable level by the treatment. However, vascular
disturbances in the posterior segment of the eye might after all be of equal
importance in these two types of glaucoma; optic disc haemorrhages and venous
occlusions have been reported to be as frequent in exfoliation glaucoma as in
POAG. Perhaps in exfoliation glaucoma circullatory disturbances combined with
high IOP lead to a particularly relentlessly progressing form of the disease.


PMID: 10749381  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2000 May;19(3):297-321.

The optic nerve head in glaucoma: role of astrocytes in tissue remodeling.

Hernandez MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. hernandez@am.seer.wustl.edu

Primary open angle glaucoma is a common eye disease characterized by loss of the 
axons of the retinal ganglion cells leading to progressive loss of vision. The
site of damage to the axons is at the level of the lamina cribrosa in the optic
nerve head. The mechanism of axonal loss is unknown but elevated intraocular
pressure and age are the most common factors associated with the disease.
Previous studies in human glaucoma and in experimental glaucoma in monkeys have
established a relationship between chronic elevation of intraocular pressure and 
remodeling of the optic nerve head tissues known clinically as cupping of the
optic disc. This review focuses on the astrocytes, the major cell type in the
optic nerve head. Astrocytes participate actively in the remodeling of neural
tissues during development and in disease. In glaucomatous optic neuropathy,
astrocytes play a major role in the remodeling of the extracellular matrix of the
optic nerve head, synthesize growth factors and other cellular mediators that may
affect directly, or indirectly, the axons of the retinal ganglion cells. Due to
the architecture of the lamina cribrosa, formed by the cells and the fibroelastic
extracellular matrix, astrocytes may respond to changes in intraocular pressure
in glaucoma, leading to some of the detrimental events that underlie axonal loss 
and retinal ganglion cell degeneration.


PMID: 10749379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Conn Med. 2000 Feb;64(2):75-8.

Glaucoma and race: a case for screening in Connecticut.

Palmisano P, Hynes M, Mueller L.

Erratum in
    Conn Med 2000 Mar;64(3):188.

This study is a review of the current literature regarding the relationship of
primary open angle glaucoma and race. There is strong evidence that blacks have a
much higher prevalence rate of this disease. They also tend to have a more severe
clinical course. Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in
blacks. The number of blacks in Connecticut with glaucoma is estimated to be
between 14,000 and 21,000, and it is estimated that up to half of these cases are
currently undetected. New technology has made screening for glaucoma more
practical and cost-effective. This study suggests that glaucoma screening would
be beneficial for the black population of Connecticut.


PMID: 10743748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J AAPOS. 2000 Feb;4(1):33-9.

Does primary intraocular lens implantation prevent "aphakic" glaucoma in
children?

Asrani S(1), Freedman S, Hasselblad V, Buckley EG, Egbert J, Dahan E, Gimbel H,
Johnson D, McClatchey S, Parks M, Plager D, Maselli E.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Eye Center and the Duke Clinical Research Center, Durham,
North Carolina, USA.

PURPOSE: Open-angle glaucoma may develop after surgery for congenital or
developmental cataract with an incidence ranging from 3% to 41%. The pathogenesis
of "aphakic" (open-angle) glaucoma remains unknown. Despite numerous reported
clinical series (>1000 eyes), we are unaware of any reported case of open-angle
glaucoma after primary intraocular lens (IOL) implantation for congenital or
developmental cataract. We decided to test the hypothesis that primary posterior 
chamber IOL implantation might decrease the incidence of open-angle glaucoma in
children.
METHODS: Pseudophakic eyes were collected from surgeons who contributed data to a
refractive study and who monitored intraocular pressure on a regular basis. IOL
implantation was commonly performed in eyes with a corneal diameter >10 mm.
Comparable primary data on aphakic eyes were included from 2 published studies on
aphakic glaucoma, which included corneal diameters and the patient's age at
surgery. Glaucoma-free survival estimates for each cohort were estimated.
RESULTS: Only 1 case of glaucoma was found among 377 eyes with primary
pseudophakia (mean age of patient, 5.1 +/- 4.7 years; mean follow-up, 3.9 +/- 2.7
years). There were 14 eyes (11.3%) with glaucoma among 124 aphakic eyes (mean age
of patient, 2.7 +/- 2.6 years; mean follow-up time, 7.2 +/- 3.9 years).
CONCLUSIONS: We report a decreased incidence of open-angle glaucoma among eyes
rendered primarily pseudophakic compared with those that remained aphakic after
cataract surgery. We propose 2 theories on the possible mechanism of reduction in
the incidence of glaucoma in pseudophakic eyes.


PMID: 10675869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Drugs Aging. 1999 Dec;15(6):439-50.

Corticosteroids and glaucoma risk.

Tripathi RC(1), Parapuram SK, Tripathi BJ, Zhong Y, Chalam KV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of South Carolina School of Medicine, 
Columbia 29209, USA. rtripath@med.sc.edu

Corticosteroids (glucocorticoids), used frequently as potent anti-inflammatory
agents, increase the risk of glaucoma by raising the intraocular pressure (IOP)
when administered exogenously (topically, periocularly or systemically) and in
certain conditions of increased endogenous production (e.g. Cushing's syndrome). 
Approximately 18 to 36% of the general population are corticosteroid responders. 
This response is increased to 46 to 92% in patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG). Patients over 40 years of age and with certain systemic diseases
(e.g. diabetes mellitus, high myopia) as well as relatives of patients with POAG 
are more vulnerable to corticosteroid-induced glaucoma. The association of
corticosteroid-induced ocular hypertension in other conditions which are
considered as risk factors for glaucoma (racial origins, hypertension, migraine, 
vasospasm) is likely but not fully established. The proposed mechanism of
corticosteroid-induced glaucoma includes morphological and functional changes in 
the trabecular meshwork system and is similar to the pathogenesis of POAG.
Trabecular cells exposed to corticosteroids in vitro show endoreplication of
nuclei, an increase in cell size and excessive production of an approximately
56kD glycoprotein, identified as myocilin and transcribed by the GLC1A gene.
Induction of ocular hypertension after corticosteroid administration depends on
the specific drug, the dose, the frequency of administration and the
corticosteroid responsiveness of the patient. The risk of corticosteroid-induced 
glaucoma can be minimised with judicious use of corticosteroids, as well as
education of patients and medical practitioners. New treatment modalities include
modified steroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents that will have less
effect on the elevation of IOP.


PMID: 10641955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


648. J Am Optom Assoc. 1999 Nov;70(11):715-23.

Posner-Schlossman syndrome: a case report.

Harrington JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clarendon Vision Center, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.

Erratum in
    J Am Optom Assoc 2000 Jan;71(1):6.

BACKGROUND: Glaucomatocyclitic Crisis (AKA Posner-Schlossman syndrome) is a
syndrome that affects patients between the ages of 20 and 50 years. It is
characterized by a mild recurrent anterior uveitis associated with an
out-of-proportion intraocular pressure spike in the same eye. The cause is
unclear, but many theories exist. Some researchers have tried to connect it with 
primary open-angle glaucoma.
CASE REPORT: A review of the record of a 41-year-old Hispanic woman with
Posner-Schlossman syndrome is discussed. She sought treatment on multiple
occasions with symptoms of mild pain, photophobia, and a blurry left eye.
Examination revealed mild anterior chamber reaction and an intraocular pressure
(IOP) spike in the same eye. She was treated with topical anti-inflammatory and
pressure-lowering agents. Each individual flare-up was treated successfully, but 
the patient began to show equivocal signs of primary open-angle glaucoma (PDAG). 
She is currently treated prophylactically for POAG with a beta-blocker. No
etiologic factor was identified in this patient. The differential diagnosis is
straight-forward and the treatment is general uveitic therapy--minus
cycloplegics--combined with an IOP-lowering drop.
CONCLUSION: This is an interesting and relatively rare uveitic condition. The
list of differential diagnoses is long, as is the theorized etiologies; however, 
clinically the condition is relatively quickly identifiable by the presence (and 
absence) of signs and symptoms.


PMID: 10618850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Lancet. 1999 Nov 20;354(9192):1803-10.

Glaucoma.

Coleman AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Jules Stein Eye Institute, University of
California, Los Angeles 90095, USA. coleman@jsei.ucla.edu

In 2000 an estimated 66.8 million people worldwide will have glaucoma, 6.7
million of whom will be bilaterally blind from irreversible optic-nerve damage.
Yet even in developed countries with public educational programmes that target
glaucoma, half of the individuals with glaucoma remain undiagnosed. Patients with
even mild visual impairment secondary to glaucoma may have difficulties with
mobility, driving, and social interactions. Although glaucoma may be associated
with increased eye pressures, its diagnosis does not rely on a specific level of 
eye pressure. Diagnosis of glaucoma often relies on examination of the optic disc
and assessment of the visual field. The two most common types of
glaucoma--primary open-angle glaucoma and primary angle-closure glaucoma--have
different risk factors. Although similar medications can be used to treat these
two types of glaucoma, the overall management of patients differs in important
ways. Until recently, there were no randomised clinical trials that showed the
effectiveness of lowering eye pressures with medications or surgery in patients
with glaucoma. However, in 1998 a randomised clinical trial showed the benefit of
lowering eye pressure in patients with glaucoma who had eye pressures of 24 mm Hg
or less. Because glaucoma is treatable, and because the visual impairment from
glaucoma is irreversible, early detection of the disease is critically important.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)04240-3 
PMID: 10577657  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 Oct;128(4):434-9.

Long-term follow-up of trabeculectomy without antimetabolites in patients with
uveitis.

Stavrou P(1), Murray PI.

Author information: 
(1)Birmingham and Midland Eye Centre, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: To determine the long-term success rate after trabeculectomy without
antimetabolites in patients with uveitis.
METHODS: Review of data from all patients with uveitis who underwent
trabeculectomy for uncontrolled intraocular pressure secondary to intraocular
inflammation between May 1990 and December 1994. Results were compared with those
from a group of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma matched for sex and
surgeon.
RESULTS: The uveitis group consisted of 32 eyes (20 patients). Maximum control of
intraocular inflammation was achieved for a minimum of 2 months before surgery.
Mean (+/-SD) age was 40.0 +/- 12.5 years (range, 14 to 67 years), with a median
(+/-SE) follow-up of 53.0 +/- 1.8 months (range, 33 to 84 months). The primary
open-angle glaucoma group consisted of 33 eyes (23 patients), with a mean age of 
62.0 +/- 13.7 years (range, 26 to 81 years) and a median follow-up of 63.0 +/-
12.0 months (range, 34 to 299 months). The overall 5-year success rate
(intraocular pressure < or =21 mm Hg with or without topical medication) for the 
uveitis group was 78% compared with 82% for the primary open-angle glaucoma group
(P = .7). The absolute 5-year success rate (intraocular pressure < or =21 mm Hg
with no medication) for the uveitis group was 53% compared with 67% for the
primary open-angle glaucoma group (P = .87).
CONCLUSIONS: In the absence of other risk factors, such as Afro-Caribbean race
and previous intraocular surgery, and with adequate preoperative control of
inflammation, trabeculectomy without antimetabolites may be considered the
primary surgical procedure for increased intraocular pressure in patients with
uveitis.


PMID: 10577584  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1999 Apr;10(2):135-9.

The diagnostic value of automated flicker threshold perimetry.

Rota-Bartelink A.

Automated perimetry techniques have advanced from the standard white-on-white
threshold perimetry to a myriad of perimetric models. These models include motion
detection, frequency-doubling contrast sensitivity, and spatial contrast
sensitivity perimetry. The research findings for the more popular of the
automated perimetry models, in particular those of blue-on-yellow and critical
fusion frequency perimetry, are discussed and compared with findings for flicker 
threshold perimetry. Flicker threshold perimetry demonstrates resistance to such 
factors as test variability and retinal image blur and has great promise in its
ability to detect early visual field loss in the presence of primary open-angle
glaucoma.


PMID: 10537764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1999 Apr;10(2):126-34.

Glaucoma genetics: where are we? Where will we go?

Craig JE(1), Mackey DA.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, Department of
Ophthalmology, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, East Melbourne, Australia.

The understanding of the genetic basis of the glaucomas has advanced rapidly.
Mutations in the myocilin gene (previously known as TIGR) at the GLC1A locus on
chromosome 1q21-q31 occur in a subset of patients with juvenile- and adult-onset 
primary open-angle glaucoma. Five other genetic localizations for primary
open-angle glaucoma have now been reported. In patients with primary congenital
glaucoma, mutations have been found in the CYP1B1 gene on chromosome 2p21. At
least one other locus for primary congenital glaucoma is mapped. In the
developmental glaucomas, mutations in the PITX2 gene on chromosome 4q25 have been
associated with Rieger syndrome, iris hypoplasia, and iridogoniodysgenesis. A
second locus for Rieger syndrome resides on chromosome 13q14. Mutations in the
FKHL7 gene on chromosome 6p25 have been described in patients with
Axenfeld-Rieger anomaly. A new ocular finding of glaucoma in pedigrees with the
nailpatella syndrome has been described, and mutations in the LMX1B gene on
chromosome 9q34 are now known to underlie nail-patella syndrome. Two loci for the
pigment dispersion syndrome have been mapped. This paper provides an overview of 
recent literature, summarizes developments in glaucoma genetics, and addresses
their potential relevance to the clinical management of glaucoma.


PMID: 10537763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers. 1999 Sep-Oct;30(8):637-46.

Primary trabeculectomy in young adults: long-term clinical results and factors
influencing the outcome.

Jacobi PC(1), Dietlein TS, Krieglstein GK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital, Cologne, Germany.
Philipp.Jacobi@uni-koeln.de

OBJECTIVE: To assess the long-term clinical outcome of primary trabeculectomy in 
young adults, and evaluate potential risk factors contributing to failure of
filtering surgery.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective review was carried out of the charts of all
glaucomatous patients between the age of 15 to 45 years. These patients had no
history of previous extra- or intraocular surgery and had undergone primary
trabeculectomy without the use of antimetabolites from January 1988 to January
1995 at the University Eye Hospital of Cologne. A total of 51 eyes of 45 patients
fulfilled the inclusion criteria. There were no drop-outs from follow-up. Mean
follow-up was 5.2 years (range, 2.5 to 9.5 years). Outcome was defined as a
success when postoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) was 21 mm Hg or lower. If
further glaucoma medication was required the outcome was described as a qualified
success, and when the patient was free of medication the outcome was considered a
complete success.
RESULTS: Using the Kaplan-Meier survival curve, cumulative life-table success
rates were 88% at 1 year (n = 51), 82% at 3 years (n = 47), 76% at 5 years (n =
26), and 70% at 7 years (n = 22). At final visit 71% (n = 36) were classified as 
successes, with 54% (n=30) being successful without adjunct medication. Seventeen
percent (n = 6) required additional topical medication. Previous laser
trabeculoplasty and an IOP greater than 40 mm Hg during the course of the disease
was found to adversely affect the outcome. Eyes with iridocorneal
epithelialopathy (ICE) syndrome, Rieger's anomaly, and uveitic glaucoma failed
more frequently than those with juvenile, pigmentary, and primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG). Younger age (< 30 years) was not associated with a lower success
rate after controlling for glaucoma category.
CONCLUSION: The success rate of the uncomplicated group compares favorably with
the 75% to 90% success rates of trabeculectomy commonly cited for primary
glaucomas in older adults. Primary trabeculectomy in young patients may have a
favorable outcome even without antimetabolite therapy.


PMID: 10507566  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


654. J Am Optom Assoc. 1998 Dec;69(12):785-95.

Juvenile onset primary open-angle glaucoma: three case studies and review.

Bachman JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Illinois Eye Institute, Illinois College of Optometry, Chicago, USA.

BACKGROUND: Common clinical characteristics of juvenile onset primary open-angle 
glaucoma (JPOAG) include increased intraocular pressure, optic nervehead damage, 
visual-field loss, and a normal-appearing iridocorneal angle by gonioscopy.
Histologic analysis of the angle structures may show varying developmental
abnormalities that are observed to be less obvious as age of onset increases.
Individuals who are African-American, male in gender, and myopio, are at highest 
risk--particularly if a positive family history exists. A genetic locus for
juvenile onset primary open-angle glaucoma has been isolated to the long arm of
chromosome 1.
CASE REPORTS: Three separate cases of JPOAG diagnosed in a 16-year-old
African-American girl, a 9-year-old African-American boy, and a 28-year-old
African-American woman are presented and reviewed. The symptoms, clinical
presentation, disease progression, and treatment options are discussed in detail.
CONCLUSION: Early recognition of this disease is possible through screening on
all patients--particularly those who exhibit increased cupping with increased
intraocular pressures and risk factors, such as youthful age, male gender, myopic
refractive error, and African-American heritage with a positive family history of
glaucoma. Family members should also be examined.


PMID: 10457673  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Prog Retin Eye Res. 1999 Sep;18(5):669-87.

Progress in measurement of ocular blood flow and relevance to our understanding
of glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration.

Harris A(1), Chung HS, Ciulla TA, Kagemann L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana University, Indianapolis 46202, USA.
Alharris@indiana.edu

New technologies have facilitated the study of the ocular circulation. These
modalities and analysis techniques facilitate very precise and comprehensive
study of retinal, choroidal, and retrobulbar circulations. These techniques
include: 1. Vessel caliber assessment; 2. Scanning laser ophthalmoscopic
fluorescein angiography and indocyanine green angiography to image and evaluate
the retinal circulation and choroidal circulation respectively; 3. Laser Doppler 
flowmetry and confocal scanning laser Doppler flowmetry to measure blood flow in 
the optic nerve head and retinal capillary beds; 4. Ocular pulse measurement; and
5. color Doppler imaging to measure blood flow velocities in the central retinal 
artery, the ciliary arteries and the ophthalmic artery. These technique have
greatly enhanced the ability to quantify ocular perfusion defects in many
disorders, including glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration, two of the
most prevalent causes of blindness in the industrialized world. Recently it has
become clear, in animal models of glaucoma, that retinal ganglion cells die via
apoptosis. The factors that initiate apoptosis in these cells remain obscure, but
ischemia may play a central role. Patients with either primary open-angle
glaucoma or normal-tension glaucoma experience various ocular blood flow
deficits. With regard to age-related macular degeneration, the etiology remains
unknown although some theories include primary retinal pigment epithelial
senescence, genetic defects such as those found in the ABCR gene which is also
defective in Stargardt's disease and ocular perfusion abnormalities. As the
choriocapillaris supplies the metabolic needs of the retinal pigment epithelium
and the outer retina, perfusion defect in the choriocapillaris could account for 
some of the physiologic and pathologic changes in AMD. Vascular defects have been
identified in both nonexudative and exudative AMD patients using new
technologies. This paper is a comprehensive update describing modalities
available for the measurement of all new ocular blood flow in human and the
clinical use.


PMID: 10438154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Surv Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;43 Suppl 1:S223-43.

Optic disk appearances in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Broadway DC(1), Nicolela MT, Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

Primary open-angle glaucoma almost certainly develops in a multifactorial manner,
with interplay between numerous risk factors affecting the disease. These risk
factors, in addition to intraocular pressure, include a number of cardiovascular 
factors. Some of these factors may determine the appearance of the damaged
glaucomatous optic nerve head. Patients with four specific optic disk appearances
have been investigated, and differences have been identified in their demographic
characteristics, prevalence of certain risk factors, the pattern of visual field 
damage, and circulatory abnormalities in their retrobulbar vessels. The findings 
provide evidence of the existence of subgroups of primary open-angle glaucoma
with correlations between risk factor and type of optic disk. A reliable method
by which the different disk appearances could be distinguished in an objective
manner would be clinically valuable, and the scanning laser ophthalmoscope has
shown potential promise to achieve this. The results of studies relating to
various glaucomatous optic disk appearances are presented and discussed.


PMID: 10416767  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Surv Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;43 Suppl 1:S191-8.

Laser Doppler flowmetry of the optic nerve head in glaucoma.

Piltz-Seymour JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Scheie Eye Institute, University of Pennsylvania Health Systems, Philadelphia 
19104, USA. piltz@mail.med.upenn.edu

The introduction of ocular laser Doppler flowmetry during the last decade has
greatly improved our ability to noninvasively assess the hemodynamics of the
optic nerve in patients with glaucoma. Studies with laser Doppler flowmetry have 
determined that blood flow in the optic nerve is diminished in eyes with primary 
open-angle glaucoma and that this decrease occurs in patterns consistent with
glaucomatous damage. Lower systemic blood pressure is associated with lower blood
flow, supporting numerous studies linking systemic hypotension to glaucomatous
damage. This direct relationship between systemic blood pressure and optic nerve 
blood flow has significant implications in terms of the etiology of glaucomatous 
damage and the treatment of ocular and systemic diseases in the glaucoma patient.
Further research is needed to determine whether the circulatory abnormalities of 
the optic nerve head are a cause or a result of glaucomatous damage.


PMID: 10416763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Surv Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;43 Suppl 1:S176-82.

Color Doppler imaging of the retrobulbar circulation in glaucoma.

Rankin SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, The Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, Northern
Ireland. simon.rankin@btinternet.com

Color Doppler imaging is a noninvasive technique for investigating the
retrobulbar circulation, showing specific retrobulbar vessels Ophthalmology
Department, The Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, Northern Ireland and measuring 
blood velocity characteristics within these vessels. Color Doppler imaging is
reproducible and has been used by many investigators to study blood velocity in
the ophthalmic artery, the central retinal artery, and the short posterior
ciliary arteries. The technique has shown statistically significant reductions in
the flow velocities and increases in the resistance indices of these vessels in
both primary open-angle glaucoma and normal tension glaucoma in comparison with
normal control subjects. These changes correlate with disease severity and
asymmetry and illustrate a compromised circulation in this region. Intraocular
pressure and vasospasm have been shown to affect blood flow velocities in the
same circulation. This article discusses studies that have elucidated these
changes in various subpopulations of glaucoma subjects in an attempt to determine
hemodynamic alterations between these disease types.


PMID: 10416761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Surv Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;43 Suppl 1:S10-6.

Nocturnal hypotension: role in glaucoma progression.

Graham SL(1), Drance SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada.

The role of systemic blood pressure in glaucomatous damage remains undefined,
with systemic hypertension and hypotension being implicated in different studies.
We have previously reported that the physiologic nocturnal blood pressure "dip"
may be exaggerated in some glaucoma patients with progressive field loss. A
24-hour ambulatory blood pressure recording was originally performed on 84
patients with glaucoma. The mean result across all our glaucoma patients were
within the ranges reported in the literature for normal subjects. The
normal-tension glaucoma and primary open-angle glaucoma groups did not differ
significantly in blood pressure variables. Nocturnal blood pressure variables
were lower in the patients with progressive field defects compared to those with 
stable visual fields. To determine long-term outcomes in these patients, we
reevaluated the visual fields of the original 84 patients studied. In 70 patients
with long-term visual field data (mean, 5.1 years), those who had shown greater
nocturnal blood pressure dips were more likely to have shown field progression at
some stage, despite good intraocular pressure control. Patients who had field
progression showed significantly lower nocturnal blood pressure variables, with
the dips of the systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressure significantly
larger (systolic dip, P = 0.01). They also had a greater history of disk
hemorrhages. A review of other 24-hour blood pressure studies in the literature
shows that most are in agreement with these findings. The nocturnal reduction in 
blood pressure may, therefore, be an additional risk factor in glaucoma patients.


PMID: 10416743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Am Fam Physician. 1999 Jul;60(1):99-108.

Common causes of vision loss in elderly patients.

Quillen DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine, Hershey, USA.

Vision loss among the elderly is a major health care problem. Approximately one
person in three has some form of vision-reducing eye disease by the age of 65.
The most common causes of vision loss among the elderly are age-related macular
degeneration, glaucoma, cataract and diabetic retinopathy. Age-related macular
degeneration is characterized by the loss of central vision. Primary open-angle
glaucoma results in optic nerve damage and visual field loss. Because this
condition may initially be asymptomatic, regular screening examinations are
recommended for elderly patients. Cataract is a common cause of vision impairment
among the elderly, but surgery is often effective in restoring vision. Diabetic
retinopathy may be observed in the elderly at the time of diagnosis or during the
first few years of diabetes. Patients should undergo eye examinations with
dilation when diabetes is diagnosed and annually thereafter.


PMID: 10414631  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Br J Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;83(6):707-12.

The Bristol Shared Care Glaucoma Study: reliability of community optometric and
hospital eye service test measures.

Spry PG(1), Spencer IC, Sparrow JM, Peters TJ, Brookes ST, Gray S, Baker I,
Furber JE, Easty DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Bristol, Bristol.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Primary open angle glaucoma patients and glaucoma suspects make 
up a considerable proportion of outpatient ophthalmological attendances and
require lifelong review. Community optometrists can be suitably trained for
assessment of glaucoma. This randomised controlled trial aims to assess the
ability of community optometrists in the monitoring of this group of patients.
METHODS: Measures of cup to disc ratio, visual field score, and intraocular
pressure were taken by community optometrists, the hospital eye service and a
research clinic reference "gold" standard in 405 stable glaucoma patients and
ocular hypertensives. Agreement between and within the three centres was assessed
using mean differences and intraclass correlation coefficients. Tolerance limits 
for a change in status at the level of individual pairs of measurements were also
calculated.
RESULTS: Compared with a research clinic reference standard, measurements made by
community optometrists and those made in the routine hospital eye service were
similar. Mean measurement differences and variability were similar across all
three groups compared for each of the test variables (IOP, cup to disc ratio, and
visual field). Overall, the visual field was found to be the most reliable
measurement and the cup to disc ratio the least.
CONCLUSIONS: Trained community optometrists are able to make reliable
measurements of the factors important in the assessment of glaucoma patients and 
glaucoma suspects. This clinical ability should allow those optometrists with
appropriate training to play a role in the monitoring of suitable patients.


PMCID: PMC1723073
PMID: 10340981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Postgrad Med J. 1998 Dec;74(878):709-15.

Glaucoma: diagnosis and management.

Infeld DA(1), O'Shea JG.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Birmingham and Midland Eye Centre, UK.

Glaucoma is the third most prevalent cause of global blindness, accounting for
over 5 million blind. It is common in Western Countries; the estimated prevalence
of primary open angle glaucoma rises from a total prevalence of 1.1% to
approximately 3% of our population as it ages. Ethnicity affects both the risk of
developing glaucoma and the outcome. It is an expensive disease both to detect
and to treat. Recent scientific advances include elucidation of the genetic
mechanism behind the disease and the study of haemodynamic and biochemical
co-factors in the development of glaucomatous optic neuropathy, particularly in
relation to the pathogenesis of normal tension glaucoma. Several new types of
topical medication have recently been developed for use in glaucoma; both the
impact of these therapies and their cost effectiveness remain to be evaluated.
There are widely differing regimes which effectively treat glaucoma; some
ophthalmologists prefer early surgical intervention whilst others reserve surgery
for relatively advanced disease. All methods of current treatment rely on the
reduction of intra-ocular pressure; as yet there is no medication which has been 
definitively proven to be either neuroprotective or to influence favourably optic
nerve perfusion. Despite this, most sufferers of glaucoma are able to lead lives 
of quality. Increased community awareness of glaucoma, and earlier detection of
the condition, will doubtless result in decreased morbidity due to glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC2431621
PMID: 10320884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Chronic Dis Can. 1998;19(4):157-69.

Monograph series on aging-related diseases: XI. Glaucoma.

Elolia R(1), Stokes J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Aging and Seniors, Population Health Directorate, Health Promotion
and Programs Branch, Health Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, K1A 0L2, Canada.

In Canada, glaucoma is the second leading cause of blindness in people aged 50
and over, with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) accounting for 90% of all
cases. Prevalence of POAG increases with age, and the condition is found more
commonly among blacks than whites. Elevated intraocular pressure is an important 
risk factor for the disease; however, its positive predictive value for the
presence of disease is poor. Prevalence of primary angle-closure glaucoma also
increases with age, occurs more frequently among the Inuit and Asians, and has
been reported to be more common among women. There are various diagnostic methods
used to determine the presence or absence of glaucoma, but none can effectively
identify the disease in its early stages unless routine screening is conducted.
Current treatment of glaucoma is aimed at lowering intraocular pressure, which
usually, but not always, stops disease progression.


PMID: 10029512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Drugs Aging. 1998 Nov;13(5):333-40.

Prospects for genetic intervention in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Wirtz MK(1), Acott TS, Samples JR, Morrison JC.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Casey Eye Institute, Oregon Health Sciences
University, Portland, USA. wirtzm@ohsu.edu

Recent advances in glaucoma genetics hold potential for dramatically changing the
clinical care of glaucoma patients. To date, 5 primary open-angle glaucoma genes 
and 2 congenital glaucoma genes have been mapped. As more glaucoma genes are
identified, earlier diagnosis for glaucoma should become more readily available. 
Progress in molecular genetics holds considerable promise for both current and
future therapy of glaucoma. Glaucoma classification will be tailored to each
individual based upon that person's family history, i.e. family glaucoma
genotype. In the future, the optimum treatment for a specific glaucoma patient
might rely on the knowledge of the phenotype of that person's causal gene,
without having to resort to 'trial and error'. At this time, glaucoma treatment
is restricted to lowering intraocular pressure. In the near future, with the
knowledge of the pathophysiology caused by the defective glaucoma gene, more
traditional drug treatments may be used to bypass the gene defect. Ultimately,
gene therapy would replace the mutant gene with a normal one before visual loss
has occurred as has been done with a model for retinitis pigmentosa, the retinal 
degeneration mouse.


PMID: 9829162  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1998 Sep;213(3):126-31.

[Glaucoma and pregnancy--review of the literature with a case report].

[Article in German]

Cursiefen C(1), Jünemann A, Korth M.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik mit Poliklinik, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg.

BACKGROUND: Intraocular pressure usually decreases during pregnancy.
Pregnancy-related physiological changes do not seem to cause progression of
glaucoma.
PATIENT AND METHODS: The literature regarding glaucoma, ocular hypertension and
pregnancy indexed in Medline is reviewed. In addition, we report on a 35-year-old
patient with ocular hypertension and a known glaucoma family history, who was
thoroughly examined before, during and after pregnancy (visual fields, optic disc
measurements, 24-hours tension profile, sense physiology ["Erlanger
flicker-test", pattern-reversal-ERG, blue-yellow-VEP], ocular perfusion).
RESULTS: Visual fields and optic disc measurements did not become worse during
pregnancy. Also the other sensory parameters ("Erlanger flicker-test",
pattern-reversal-ERG, blue-yellow-VEP) did not deteriorate. Intraocular pressure 
was reduced by 7 mm Hg during and 2 months after pregnancy. Systolic and
diastolic blood velocity of the ophthalmic artery measured by dopplersonography
was increased by 60% during pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS: According to present knowledge pregnancy is associated with
decreased intraocular pressure and does not seem to constitute a risk factor for 
progression of ocular hypertension or primary open angle glaucoma. Whether
antiglaucomatous drug therapy during pregnancy is necessary awaits further
evaluation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1034962 
PMID: 9793909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Ophthalmology. 1998 Sep;105(9):1698-707.

Novel trabecular meshwork inducible glucocorticoid response mutation in an
eight-generation juvenile-onset primary open-angle glaucoma pedigree.

Richards JE(1), Ritch R, Lichter PR, Rozsa FW, Stringham HM, Caronia RM, Johnson 
D, Abundo GP, Willcockson J, Downs CA, Thompson DA, Musarella MA, Gupta N, Othman
MI, Torrez DM, Herman SB, Wong DJ, Higashi M, Boehnke M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to update a large kindred with juvenile-onset primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) first described in 1940 and to identify the underlying
genetic cause of the disease.
DESIGN: Molecular genetic study of a single kindred, including clinical
examination, retrospective review of clinical and family history records, linkage
analysis, and mutation screening.
PARTICIPANTS: The retrospective review included 957 members of a single large
family. The linkage study included 40 members of 1 branch of the family in which 
juvenile-onset POAG is segregating in an autosomal-dominant pattern. Mutation
screening included 15 at-risk family members with juvenile-onset POAG, probands
of 40 families with adult-onset POAG, probands of 11 additional unrelated
juvenile-onset POAG families, and 43 unrelated normal control subjects.
INTERVENTION: Clinical and family history records were obtained, ophthalmologic
examinations were performed, and blood samples were drawn for use in genotyping.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Allele sizes of microsatellite repeat genetic markers from
the vicinity of the GLC1A glaucoma gene on chromosome 1q were assigned based on
size fractionation of DNA fragments generated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Linkage was established by the method of lod scores. Mutations were identified by
determination of the DNA sequence of PCR products amplified from the trabecular
meshwork inducible glucocorticoid response (TIGR) gene. Glaucoma status for
purposes of linkage and mutation analysis was based on a combination of
ophthalmologic examination, clinical records, family history, and previously
published information. For some individuals reported in the pedigree, but not
included in the genotyping studies, less information was available as presented
in the text and tables.
RESULTS: Autosomal-dominant POAG was confirmed or reported for 78 members of an
8-generation family. Linkage analysis showed significant evidence for linkage of 
juvenile-onset POAG in one branch of the family to D1S452 (maximum lod score of
6.42 at a recombination fraction of 0.00) and other markers in the vicinity of
the GLC1A gene on chromosome 1q. Screening of the TIGR gene identified a mutation
that results in substitution of asparagine for isoleucine at codon 477 near the
carboxyterminal end of the protein.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors' findings strongly suggest that the juvenile-onset POAG 
locus in this family is the GLC1A locus and that the underlying cause of the
disease is the IIe477Asn TIGR mutation that cosegregates with juvenile-onset POAG
in one branch of this large family. Lack of samples from deceased individuals
prevented the authors from determining whether reported adult-onset cases in this
family could also be attributed to the IIe477Asn TIGR mutation. Absence of the
IIe477Asn TIGR mutation from other juvenile- and adult-onset POAG families
implies that this TIGR mutation is not a common cause of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)99041-8 
PMID: 9754180  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Klin Oczna. 1998;100(2):107-10.

[Primary open angle glaucoma,age and age-related cardiovascular disease risk
factors].

[Article in Polish]

Nizankowska MH(1), Turno-Krecicka A.

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistyki AM we Wrocławiu.

The authors present current opinions about influence of age and different
cardiovascular and rheological risk factors on POAG and normal tension glaucoma
(NTG), especially in age-related diseases: systemic hypertension and hypotension,
nocturnal systemic hypotension, diabetes, obesity and high blood viscosity. The
work points out the importance of cooperation between ophthalmologist and
specialist of internal medicine in treating patients with POAG and NTG.


PMID: 9695546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Surv Ophthalmol. 1998 May-Jun;42(6):535-47.

The association between cigarette smoking and ocular diseases.

Solberg Y(1), Rosner M, Belkin M.

Author information: 
(1)Goldschleger Eye Research Institute, Tel-Aviv University, and Sheba Medical
Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel.

Tobacco smoke is composed of as many as 4,000 active compounds, most of them
toxic on either acute or long-term exposure. Many of them are also poisonous to
ocular tissues, affecting the eye mainly through ischemic or oxidative
mechanisms. The list of ophthalmologic disorders associated with cigarette
smoking continues to grow. Most chronic ocular diseases, with the possible
exception of diabetic retinopathy and primary open-angle glaucoma, appear to be
associated with smoking. Both cataract development and age-related macular
degeneration, the leading causes of severe visual impairment and blindness, are
directly accelerated by smoking. Other common ocular disorders, such as retinal
ischemia, anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, and Graves ophthalmopathy, are also
significantly linked to this harmful habit. Tobacco smoking is the direct cause
of tobacco-alcohol amblyopia, a once common but now rare disease characterized by
severe visual loss, which is probably a result of toxic optic nerve damage.
Cigarette smoking is highly irritating to the conjunctival mucosa, also affecting
the eyes of nonsmokers by passive exposure (secondhand smoking). The dangerous
effects of smoking are transmitted through the placenta, and offspring of smoking
mothers are prone to develop strabismus. Efforts should be directed toward
augmenting the campaign against tobacco smoking by adding the increased risk of
blindness to the better-known arguments against smoking. We should urge our
patients to quit smoking, and we must make them keenly aware of the afflictions
that can develop when smoke gets in our eyes.


PMID: 9635902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


669. J Glaucoma. 1998 Apr;7(2):95-104.

Costs of treating primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension: a
retrospective, observational two-year chart review of newly diagnosed patients in
Sweden and the United States.

Kobelt-Nguyen G(1), Gerdtham UG, Alm A.

Author information: 
(1)Health Dynamics International, London, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to investigate what treatment strategies
prevail in different countries for patients newly diagnosed with primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) or ocular hypertension (OH) only and initiated on
treatment with beta-blockers, and to estimate the total direct cost of treatment 
for two years. In addition, differences in costs between and within the countries
and the determinants of variations in costs across patients were examined.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The authors performed a retrospective medical record
analysis in several academic and office-based study centers in Sweden and the
United States. Standard costs for each resource item were determined and applied 
to all centers within the country. Differences in treatment costs within the
countries are thus the effect of differences in treatment strategies, not of
differences in prices.
RESULTS: There was considerable variation between the centers of each country.
Sweden had a higher number of surgical interventions, which may be explained by
the fact that the Swedish cohort had a higher mean intraocular pressure (IOP) at 
baseline and a higher proportion of patients with definite POAG and exfoliation
glaucoma. However, in both countries the mean IOP at study end was approximately 
18 mm Hg. Total direct costs for two years were 15,119 SEK (US$2,160; $1US = 7
SEK) and $2,109, respectively. In a multiple regression analysis, the estimated
effects of baseline IOP and of IOP change after treatment initiation on treatment
costs were positively and negatively significant, respectively, in both
countries.
CONCLUSION: Despite differences in baseline diagnosis and in treatment
strategies, mean IOP was decreased to 18 mm Hg in both countries. Baseline IOP
was positively correlated with treatment costs, while the initial IOP-lowering
effect of treatment was negatively correlated with two-year costs.


PMID: 9559495  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi (Taipei). 1998 Feb;61(2):65-70.

Glaucoma following congenital cataract surgery.

Lee AF(1), Lee SM, Chou JC, Liu JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Veterans General Hospital-Taipei, National
Yang-Ming University, Taiwan, ROC.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is a well known complication that arises after congenital
cataract surgery. The purpose of this research was to study eyes that manifested 
glaucoma after congenital cataract surgery and to identify associated factors.
METHODS: A retrospective review of patients who received cataract surgery before 
the age of five was conducted. The chi-squared test for association was used to
evaluate risk factors.
RESULTS: One hundred and forty eyes of 85 patients were studied. Nineteen eyes of
12 patients had glaucoma, among which 79% was open angle. Patients who underwent 
secondary membranectomy for visual axis occlusion had a higher risk of glaucoma, 
especially when secondary membranectomy was performed within one year of primary 
surgery. Of eight eyes with microcornea, none developed glaucoma after surgery.
No significant difference in outcome was found among the surgical methods of
cataract removal.
CONCLUSIONS: Aggressive clearance of lens cortex during surgery is important.
Secondary membranectomy for clearing the visual axis occlusion is associated with
post operative glaucoma. Frequent and long-term patient follow-up is mandatory
since glaucoma may manifest many years after congenital cataract surgery.


PMID: 9532867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Rev Med Suisse Romande. 1998 Jan;118(1):81-4.

[Glaucoma: modern diagnostic and therapeutic approach].

[Article in French]

Mermoud A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hôpital ophtalmique Jules Gonin, Service universitaire d'ophtalmologie,
Lausanne.

Primary open angle glaucoma may be a severe ocular disease and may lead to
blindness if not diagnosed and/or treated in time. The pathogenic mechanism is a 
progressive loss of ganglion cells leading to cupping of the optic nerve head.
The main risk factor is an elevated intraocular pressure, but optic nerve
vascular deficiency, neuronal degeneration or genetic factors have to be
considered as other potential risk factors. The actual diagnostic tools and the
latest technologies for the medical, laser and surgical treatment are described
in this paper.


PMID: 9528328  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Surv Ophthalmol. 1998 Jan-Feb;42(4):367-72.

Potential neuroprotective therapy for glaucomatous optic neuropathy.

Yoles E(1), Schwartz M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

Accumulating evidence points to the existence of a mechanism that may explain why
glaucomatous neuropathy continues to progress even after its primary cause, e.g.,
high intraocular pressure, has been alleviated or attenuated. We suggest that
such a mechanism involves processes collectively termed secondary degeneration,
an inevitable outcome of acute injury of the central nervous system. Secondary
degeneration refers to the spread of degeneration to apparently healthy neurons
that escaped the primary insult, but are adjacent to the injured neurons and are 
thus exposed to the degenerative milieu that the latter create. Neuroprotection, 
i.e., protection of undamaged neurons from secondary degeneration, would
therefore require that the extracellular elements associated with the
degeneration be neutralized, balanced off, or inhibited. In seeking an
experimental framework for testing treatment modalities for neuroprotection, we
have developed an animal model in which a well-calibrated, reproducible, partial 
lesion is inflicted on the optic nerve of the adult rat. Using this model, the
extent of the primary damage can be quantified and the secondary degeneration
demonstrated and assessed. Damage inflicted directly on the optic nerve fibers
inevitably leads to their degeneration and the eventual death of their cell
bodies. Over time, neurons that initially escaped the injury undergo
self-perpetuating secondary degeneration, the extent of which is a function of
the severity of the primary insult. We suggest that a similar mechanism may
underlie the propagation of damage seen in glaucoma at any given time after
alleviation of the primary cause of the disease, and might explain why patients
with severe pre-existing damage are much more likely to deteriorate even if their
intraocular pressure is the same or lower than that of patients without visual
loss at the time of diagnosis. The model can be used to screen compounds for
their efficacy in protecting initially spared neurons from undergoing secondary
degeneration, thereby achieving a better functional outcome. The findings
obtained using this model support the attempt to develop neuroprotective therapy 
for glaucoma. Such therapy would need to be applied in combination with treatment
(e.g., antihypertensive therapy) directed against the primary cause of the
neuropathy.


PMID: 9493279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1998 Apr;9(2):65-70.

The psychology of the glaucoma patient.

Erb C(1), Thiel HJ, Flammer J.

Author information: 
(1)University of Basel, Department of Ophthalmology, Tübingen, Germany.

Under physiological conditions, intraocular pressure (IOP) is controlled by the
autonomic and central nervous systems. Correspondingly, nerve fibers and
neurotransmitters are present in ciliary body and trabecular meshwork. IOP
responds to physical as well as psychological stimuli in healthy individuals. In 
patients with dysregulated IOP, e.g., in those with primary open-angle glaucoma, 
emotional instability without a specific personality pattern could be found.
Whereas the statistical association between emotional changes and glaucoma is
obvious, the causal relationship remains to be clarified. It is at least
plausible that psychic stress may have an influence on IOP. However, the sequence
of the events is unknown (emotional disturbance can be the result of the disease 
or it can be a primary sign of a nervous dysfunction). Therefore, it seems
meaningful--in addition to standard glaucoma therapy--to try to improve the
patient's emotional condition, both for treatment of the glaucoma and for the
patient's general quality of life.


PMID: 10180517  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Arch Intern Med. 1998 Feb 9;158(3):221-6.

Beta-blocker-induced complications and the patient with glaucoma. Newer
treatments to help reduce systemic adverse events.

Stewart WC(1), Garrison PM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of South Carolina Medical School,
Columbia, USA.

Primary open-angle glaucoma is a condition associated with an elevated
intraocular pressure (IOP) that is defined as optic degeneration with a slowly
progressive deterioration of the visual field that may lead to blindness. More
than 1 million Americans are being treated for glaucoma, and 80,000 are legally
blind as a result of the disease. Glaucoma has its highest prevalence among the
elderly population, with an incidence of approximately 1% in those older than 60 
years, 3% in those between the ages of 70 and 80 years, and more than 9% in those
older than 80 years. Treatment is directed at lowering high ocular pressures. The
initial treatment, in most cases topical therapy with a beta-adrenergic blocking 
agent, reduces the IOP to help preserve sight. But such topical agents may also
have adverse systemic effects on cardiac, pulmonary, central nervous system
(CNS), and endocrine functions.


PMID: 9472201  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1997 Oct;211(4):217-26.

[Risk factors for retinal occlusive diseases].

[Article in German]

Lang GE(1), Spraul CW.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik ULM.

Retinal vascular occlusions are the second most common retinal vascular diseases 
following diabetic retinopathy. Central retinal artery occlusion and branch
retinal artery occlusion are most often caused by emboli. The mean age of
patients with retinal artery occlusion and branch retinal artery occlusion is 62 
and 58 years, respectively. The most common risk factors are arterial
hypertension (65%), diabetes mellitus (25%), valvular diseases of the heart
(25%), and carotid artery stenosis or plaques (45%). Rare causes are arteritis
and vascular spasm. The pathogenesis of retinal branch vein occlusion and central
retinal vein occlusion remains speculative. Two different mechanisms have been
postulated, i.e. thrombosis in the vein due to a compression by atherosclerotic
changes in the adjacent artery and a local alteration of the blood flow due to
unfavourable physiologic factors. Retinal vein occlusion manifests at a mean age 
of 65 years. The most common risk factors are arterial hypertension in 34-75% and
primary open angle glaucoma in 2.1-82%. In 5.6% of the patients with retinal
branch vein occlusion retinal vasculitis is present.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1035126 
PMID: 9445908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Surv Ophthalmol. 1997 Sep-Oct;42(2):125-36.

Clarifying the nomenclature for primary angle-closure glaucoma.

Kim YY(1), Jung HR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea.

Despite tremendous development in the field of glaucoma, there is confusion in
the nomenclature system for classification, gonioscopy, and mechanisms of primary
angle-closure glaucoma. In this article, we critically review the various
nomenclature systems and suggest some modifications to the current
classifications. These include four diagnostic categories: 1) angle-closure
glaucoma suspect; 2) angle-closure hypertension; 3) chronic angle-closure
glaucoma; and 4) acute angle-closure glaucoma. Gonioscopy is valuable for
evaluating primary angle-closure glaucoma but more precise descriptions of
gonioscopic observations are needed. Because of racial differences in the
prevalence and mechanisms of primary angle-closure glaucoma, worldwide
population-based study is necessary. Newer technologies, such as ultrasound
biomicroscopy, show promise for the study of primary angle-closure glaucoma.


PMID: 9381366  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1997 May;25(2):137-44.

Optic disc haemorrhages and vascular abnormalities in a glaucoma population.

Barry CJ(1), Cooper RL, Eikelboom RH.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Lions Eye Institute, Perth,
Australia.

PURPOSE: To retrospectively examine the optic disc photographs of a glaucoma
population for optic disc haemorrhages, vascular occlusions and vascular
abnormalities.
METHODS: The optic disc photographs of 906 eyes of glaucoma and suspect glaucoma 
patients were examined. Optic disc photographs were taken annually, where
possible, with the follow-up period varying between 1 and 14 years duration
(mean, 2.89). Glaucoma patients are regularly reviewed every 4-6 months and
glaucoma suspects every 1-2 years, depending on the ophthalmologist. Low-tension 
glaucoma patients were reviewed more frequently (mean, every 2.6 months). The
results of the findings were compared to a control group of 39 subjects with a
mean follow-up period of 7 years, using Fisher's exact test.
RESULTS: It was found that during the period under review, 7.4% (n = 67) of eyes 
had optic disc haemorrhages. The highest frequency of optic disc haemorrhages
(37.5%) was found in the low tension glaucoma group (P = 0.0001) followed by 11% 
of primary open-angle glaucoma eyes (P = 0.03). In the normal group there were
three eyes with optic disc haemorrhages and one with a disc collateral, which
constitutes 5.1% vascular changes in this sub-group. Of the study eyes 2.8% had
central retinal vein occlusions, 1.3% branch vein occlusion, 1.2% disc vessel
abnormalities (loops) and 1.1% disc collaterals. Discrete nerve fibre layer
haemorrhages and microaneurysms were found in 0.8% and 1.8% of eyes,
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A total of 16.8% of the eyes observed in this study had either disc 
haemorrhages or vascular changes. The underlying trend of vascular and
haemorrhagic changes in glaucoma are demonstrated in this sample, which is in
general agreement with previous studies. The high percentage of optic disc
haemorrhages in low tension glaucoma is highlighted. The presence of
microaneurysms and nerve fibre layer haemorrhages is interesting but of unknown
significance.


PMID: 9267600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Vestn Oftalmol. 1997 May-Jun;113(3):5-7.

[Biomechanical characteristics of interactions between the drainage and
accommodation regulatory systems of the eye in health and in contusion lens
subluxation].

[Article in Russian]

Volkov VV(1), Kotliar KE, Koshits IN, Svetlova OV, Smol'nikov BA.

Author information: 
(1)State Technological University, Saint Petersburg.

Biomechanical aspects of joint functioning of the accommodation system of the eye
and the system regulating the discharge of intraocular fluid are considered
proceeding from the concept of joint automated regulation. A multifunctional
biomechanical model of the eye, created by the authors on the basis of numerous
data and permitting them to quantitatively trace the relationships in the
functions of the drainage and accommodation intraocular regulatory systems in
health and in contusion subdislocation of the lens, is analyzed for various
clinical situations. Theoretical and practical prerequisites for the development 
of novel methods for the diagnosis and treatment of primary open-angle and
secondary phacotopic glaucoma are discussed, specifically, regulation of
intraocular fluid discharge by purposeful shifting of the range of activity of
the accommodation regulatory system. A detailed analysis of mutual functioning of
the above ocular systems is practically important for clinical ophthalmology, for
it accelerates the development of novel methods of diagnosis and
pathogenetically-based therapy of a number of ocular diseases.


PMID: 9265365  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Br J Ophthalmol. 1997 May;81(5):409-14.

The genetics of primary open angle glaucoma.

Booth A(1), Churchill A, Anwar R, Menage M, Markham A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Unit, University of Leeds, St James's University Hospital.


PMCID: PMC1722199
PMID: 9227209  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


680. J Glaucoma. 1997 Apr;6(2):104-10.

Results of intraoperative 5-fluorouracil or lower dose mitomycin-C administration
on initial trabeculectomy surgery.

Smith MF(1), Doyle JW, Nguyen QH, Sherwood MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Florida, Gainesville 32610, USA.

PURPOSE: This study was conducted to review outcomes in eyes following primary
trabeculectomy supplemented intraoperatively with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or lower 
dose mitomycin-C (MMC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 73 eyes 
of 63 patients with progressive, far advanced open angle glaucoma who had
undergone initial trabeculectomy with intraoperative application of 5-FU, 50
mg/mL for 5 min (N = 37), or MMC, 200 micrograms/mL for 3-5 min (N = 36), and
with at least 12 months follow-up.
RESULTS: Mean preoperative intraocular pressures (IOPs) in the MMC and 5-FU
groups were 24.3 +/- 7.6 and 24.6 +/- 9.3 mm Hg, respectively. Postoperatively,
IOPs were similar at 6-month interval follow-up examinations in the MMC and 5-FU 
groups. At an average follow-up of 20.9 months, mean final visit postoperative
IOPs were 10.2 +/- 3.6 (p < 0.001) and 9.7 +/- 3.4 mm Hg (p < 0.001) in the MMC
and 5-FU groups, respectively, requiring an average of 0.25 and 0.22 antiglaucoma
medications per eye, respectively. Interval follow-up complications were similar 
between groups and included four bleb leaks in the MMC group, and three bleb
leaks in the 5-FU group. Visual acuity remained stable in 71 of 73 eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Both antifibrosis agents provide good intermediate term IOP control 
and may be appropriate for use in those eyes requiring final "target" IOPs in the
low teens or single digits.


PMID: 9098818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1997 Apr;8(2):13-8.

Molecular genetics of open-angle glaucoma, moving from gene localization to
predictive testing.

Brézin AP(1), Mondon H, Garchon HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Inserm U25, Hôpital Necker, Paris, France.

Erratum in
    Curr Opin Ophthalmol 1997 Dec;8(6):93.

It has long been suspected that genetic factors play a role in open-angle
glaucoma. Only recently, however, has the molecular basis of such factors begun
to be established, with the primary localization of the GLC1A locus for
juvenile-onset and early-onset autosomal dominant open-angle glaucoma on
chromosome 1q. These findings are clinically significant in that they allow
familial screening of individuals at risk for glaucoma before the onset of
irreversible visual impairment. A physical map of the GLC1A genomic region is now
available, and the actual GLC1A gene might be identified in the near future.
Nevertheless, open-angle glaucoma is a genetically heterogeneous entity, and
additional loci have been mapped or proposed. Identification of open-angle
glaucoma genes should provide invaluable clues to the disorder's pathophysiology.
It could also aid in conceiving novel therapeutic agents and broadening the
screening of at-risk subjects.


PMID: 10168351  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Vestn Oftalmol. 1997 Mar-Apr;113(2):42-4.

[Immunohemostatic mechanisms in the development of primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Balashova LM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Eye Diseases of Russian State Medical University, Moscow.


PMID: 9229909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers. 1997 Feb;28(2):128-32.

A review of the outcome of trabeculectomy in open-angle glaucoma.

Vesti E(1), Raitta C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The outcome of trabeculectomy in the treatment of
primary open-angle glaucoma and exfoliative glaucoma was reviewed.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 87 consecutive eyes of 87 patients with 
open-angle glaucoma. The outcome of trabeculectomy was correlated with a
biomicroscopic appearance of the filtering bleb. Visual acuity, myopic shift in
refraction, and lens opacity measurements were used as indicators for cataract
progression. The effect of viscoelastics on complications and short-term outcome 
was studied in a randomized series of 107 eyes.
RESULTS: In a series of 87 eyes, 61% had intraocular pressure (IOP) of less than 
22 mm Hg without glaucoma medication 1 year after surgery. After 3 years, the
corresponding success rate was 74% in a series of 85 eyes that had preoperative
pupillary dilation of 4 mm or more.
CONCLUSION: The diffuse filtering bleb type was associated with the greatest
decrease in IOP. Unfavorable flap-sized blebs and bleb failures were associated
with preoperative treatment with miotics, anterior fistulation, and postoperative
hypotony. These patients also tended to be younger. In a randomized, prospective 
study of 107 eyes, the use of sodium hyaluronate had no significant effect on the
incidence of complications or on the short-term outcome. Age 61 years or older,
exfoliative glaucoma, postoperative hypotony, and IOP peaks were identified as
risk factors for accelerated cataract progression after trabeculectomy.


PMID: 9054484  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 1997;267:21-6.

Glaucoma in Congo.

Kaimbo Wa Kaimbo D(1), Missotten L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Kinshasa, Congo.

OBJECTIVE: To determine frequencies of various types of glaucoma in an urban
community of Congo.
METHODS: The records of 176 patients with the diagnosis of glaucoma examined
between 1991 and 1995 at a non-university center were reviewed. A complete
ophthalmological examination was performed in each patient including best visual 
acuity, refraction, slit-lamp examination, ophthalmology and intraocular pressure
measurements. Gonioscopy and visual field examination were performed when needed.
RESULTS: The frequency distribution of the various subtypes of glaucoma was:
open-angle glaucoma (72.2%), aphakic glaucoma (9%), uveitis glaucoma (6%),
exfoliative glaucoma (3%), glaucoma secondary to ocular trauma (2.2%), cataract
glaucoma (1.7%), normal tension glaucoma (1.7%), congenital glaucoma (1.7%),
neovascular glaucoma (1.3%), pigmentary glaucoma (0.6%), corticosteroid-induced
glaucoma (0.6%), and glaucoma associated with retinoblastoma (0.6%);
CONCLUSION: Despite the limitations inherent of a retrospective review of
records, our study provides an indication of the prevalence of various types of
glaucoma in a urban community of Congo. This study confirmed also the rarity of
primary angle-closure glaucoma in the black.


PMID: 9745810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Hum Mol Genet. 1997;6(10):1667-77.

Recent advances in molecular genetics of glaucomas.

Sarfarazi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Surgical Research Center, Department of Surgery, University of Connecticut
Health Center, Farmington 06030-1110, USA. msarfara@cortex.uchc.edu

Glaucomas are a heterogeneous group of eye conditions with manifestation from as 
early as birth to very late age of onset in life. The primary type of these
conditions affecting children and juveniles are less frequent, but the prevalence
of glaucomas affecting older people of > or = 70 years progressively rises to
approximately 5%. The molecular genetics of three types of glaucoma have been the
subject of investigation in the last few years. As a result, two loci (GLC3A and 
GLC3B) have been identified for primary congenital glaucoma, one locus (GLC1A)
for juvenile-onset primary open angle glaucoma and a further two loci (GLC1B and 
GLC1C) for late-onset chronic open angle glaucoma. Early this year, the first set
of mutations was described in the CYP1B1 (Cytochrome P4501B1) and TIGR
(Trabecular meshwork Inducible Glucocorticoid Response Protein) genes for the
GLC3A and GLC1A-linked families, respectively. The mapping of different types of 
glaucoma and mutation identification in these two genes are the focus of this
review.


PMID: 9300658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Clin Neurosci. 1997;4(5):270-3.

Excitatory mechanisms in retinal ganglion cell death in primary open angle
glaucoma (POAG).

Dreyer EB(1), Grosskreutz CL.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Consultation Service, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Harvard
Medical School, USA.

Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide and the second leading cause
of irreversible blindness in the United States. The most common form of glaucoma,
primary open angle glaucoma, is characterized by a chronically elevated
intraocular pressure in the absence of any demonstrable structural abnormalities 
in the eye. The pathologic hallmark of glaucomatous optic neuropathy is the
selective death of retinal ganglion cells, generally attributed to an elevated
intraocular pressure. However, the histopathology of glaucomatous injury is
strikingly similar to the pattern seen with the administration of toxic levels of
glutamate. We have found that glaucoma is associated with elevated levels of
intraocular glutamate-to a level toxic to ganglion cells. We propose that an
elevation of vitreal glutamate may be responsible, at least in part, for the loss
of ganglion cells seen in open angle glaucoma.


PMID: 9292254  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Drug Ther Bull. 1997 Jan;35(1):4-6.

The management of primary open angle glaucoma.

[No authors listed]

Glaucoma is one of the commonest causes of blindness in the world. In the UK,
about 7% of people over the age of 75 years have primary open angle glaucoma, the
most common type of glaucoma and the cause of visual impairment in about 13% of
those registered blind. Early detection and treatment can usually prevent
blindness. However, half of all patients with primary open angle glaucoma in the 
UK do not present until vision has begun to deteriorate. Here we consider ways of
improving detection and management.


PMID: 9282410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 1997;(220):23-8; discussion 28-9.

Therapeutic options in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Wishart P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Royal Liverpool Hospital, U.K.


PMID: 9088420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 1997;(220):7-12; discussion 13-4.

Pathological dilemmas in the outflow system in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Grierson I(1), Swalem A, Davies H, Hogg P, Batterbury M, Watson P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Liverpool, U.K.


PMID: 9088418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1997 Jan;38(1):83-91.

Models of open-angle glaucoma prevalence and incidence in the United States.

Quigley HA(1), Vitale S.

Author information: 
(1)Dana Center for Preventive Opthalmology, Wilmer Institute, Johns Hopkins
University school of Medicine, Bal;timore, Maryland 21287, USA.

PURPOSE: To estimate the prevalence and incidence of open-angle glaucoma among
black and white persons in the United States and to characterize quantitatively
their life experience with glaucoma using a life table approach to estimate
disease duration.
METHODS: Review of published data on glaucoma combined with statistical models to
estimate prevalence and incidence.
RESULTS: The association of open-angle glaucoma with age was examined separately 
for white and black persons. By the year 2000, the number of persons in the
United States with primary open-angle glaucoma is estimated to be 2.47 million
(1.84 million white and 619,000 black Americans). A model using derived incidence
rates for open-angle glaucoma (OAG) and United States mortality data indicated
that the average black American has OAG 27% longer than the average white
American (16.3 years compared to 12.8 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Meta-analysis to obtain pooled prevalence estimates for glaucoma
provides useful information on length of disease and age distribution of those
affected. It may assist in estimating treatment effects and associated costs to
derive data that effect health care decisions.


PMID: 9008633  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1996 Dec;100(12):923-36.

[Current topics in glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Masuda K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Tokyo School of Medicine,
Japan.

Among the many factors involved in the development of glaucoma, the elevation of 
intraocular pressure (IOP) is the most important. The treatment of glaucoma aims 
to lower IOP in order to maintain visual function. New anti-glaucoma drugs,
latanoprost and nipradilol, have been shown to effect a reduction in IOP equal to
that achieved with the equivalent dosage of timolol, with no adverse systemic
side effects. The mechanism of the reduction of IOP by these drugs mainly
involves the increase of uveoscleral outflow. The success rate of filtering
surgery for glaucoma has been increased by using antimetabolites such as
mitomycin C (MMC) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The use of MMC during surgery has
resulted in a better outcome than with 5-FU. Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) cases 
are reported to constitute more than 60% of total glaucoma cases in Japan. NTG is
different from primary open-angle glaucoma not only in IOP but also in the
pattern of the visual field defect, cupping and peripapillary atrophy of the
optic nerve head (ONH). The first choice of treatment for NTG is using drugs for 
reducing IOP and, if necessary, argon laser trabeculoplasty. In addition to these
treatments a drug for increasing the blood circulation in the brain,
brovinecamine fumarate, has shown beneficial effects in the treatment of NTG. NTG
patients whose visual field can be shown by static perimetry to be deteriorating 
are indicated for filtering surgery. The results of filtering surgery for NTG
have been confirmed that it is more effective than drugs for maintaining the
visual field. We have developed an instrument using the laser speckle phenomenon 
for determining the microcirculation in the eye, as well as in the ONH,
noninvasively, quantitatively, and repetitively. With the same instrument, the
effects of anti-glaucomadrugs on ocular circulation, especially in the ONH, can
also be determined. Timolol has no effect on the circulation in the ONH, but
carteolol and betaxlol increase the circulation significantly. The
Ca(+2)-blocker, nilvadipine, increases the circulation in the ONH. These findings
indicate that the drugs increasing the ONH circulation many be beneficial for the
control of glaucoma.


PMID: 9022306  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


692. J Glaucoma. 1996 Dec;5(6):427-32.

Potential treatment modalities for glaucomatous neuropathy: neuroprotection and
neuroregeneration.

Schwartz M(1), Belkin M, Yoles E, Solomon A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

PURPOSE: This article presents the rationale and an experimental strategy for the
development of new treatment modalities for glaucomatous neuropathy. Accumulating
evidence suggests that regardless of the primary trigger of the retinal and optic
nerve damage in glaucoma, the disease will continue to progress even when the
cause is removed. The resulting damage can be mimicked by the progression of
damage secondary to an acute partial crush injury at the optic nerve head. Such
secondary damage includes degeneration of the directly injured optic nerve fibers
culminating in death of their cell bodies, as well as degeneration of nerve
fibers that escaped acute injury but nevertheless deteriorate as a result of
their exposure to injury-induced mediators of secondary degeneration released by 
the directly affected neurons.
CONCLUSION: We therefore propose that substances found to be effective in
rescuing fibers from secondary degeneration and in increasing the survival rate
or prolonging survival of retinal ganglion cells in the partially lesioned optic 
nerve may be useful for the treatment of glaucoma. The new approach does not
replace hypotensive therapy, but addresses the glaucoma-induced damage by
promoting nerve protection and neuroregeneration.


PMID: 8946301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


693. J Glaucoma. 1996 Dec;5(6):410-5.

Influence of diurnal variation on the intraocular pressure measurement of treated
primary open-angle glaucoma during office hours.

Rota-Bartelink AM(1), Pitt A, Story I.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Orthoptics, Faculty of Health Sciences, La Trobe University,
Bundoora, Australia.

PURPOSE: Intraocular pressure has been shown in past studies to vary diurnally.
The purpose of this study was to establish whether patients treated with timolol 
maleate for primary open-angle glaucoma should be reviewed at a specific time of 
day, within normal clinical hours (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.). It is normal practice to
schedule review appointments into either morning or afternoon clinic sessions.
This may result in abnormally high intraocular pressure values being missed.
METHODS: The intraocular pressure of 28 people with primary open-angle glaucoma
was measured by means of a Goldmann applanator on an hourly basis between the
hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. All subjects continued their antiglaucoma therapy of
timolol maleate throughout the measurement period.
RESULTS: The intraocular pressure increased significantly (p = 0.0008) throughout
the measurement period, with maximal intraocular pressure values occurring at 5
p.m. in the afternoon.
CONCLUSION: Although monitoring intraocular pressure values should not be the
only consideration in glaucoma management, undetected rises in pressure may
precede the development of optic disc cupping or visual field loss. The
variability of intraocular pressure values has important implications in the
scheduling of glaucoma intraocular pressure review measurements for the purposes 
of continuing treatment.


PMID: 8946298  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Surv Ophthalmol. 1996 Nov;41 Suppl 1:S3-7.

The role of brimonidine in the treatment of open-angle glaucoma.

Wilensky JT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Eye & Ear Infirmary, University of Illinois,
Chicago, USA.

At present, medical therapy is the first line of attack against primary
open-angle glaucoma. beta-blockers, miotics, sympathomimetics, carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors, and prostaglandins have been used with varying degrees of success.
The alpha 2-agonists, clonidine, apraclonidine, and now brimonidine are powerful 
inhibitors of aqueous humor production, thereby lowering intraocular pressure
(IOP) in these patients. Brimonidine is emerging as a potential first-line
therapy for primary open-angle glaucoma, with a peak IOP-lowering efficacy
comparable to that of timolol, but without timolol's adverse cardiopulmonary side
effects. Brimonidine promises to be an important new drug to help meet the
therapeutic challenges faced by ophthalmologists in treating glaucoma.


PMID: 8970244  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Drugs Aging. 1996 Nov;9(5):363-78.

Latanoprost. A review of its pharmacological properties, clinical efficacy and
tolerability in the management of primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular
hypertension.

Patel SS(1), Spencer CM.

Author information: 
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand.

Latanoprost is an ester prodrug analogue of prostaglandin F2 alpha which
effectively reduces intraocular pressure (IOP) by increasing uveoscleral outflow 
rather than altering conventional trabeculo-canalicular) aqueous outflow. The
IOP-lowering effect of latanoprost lasts for 20 to 24 hours after a single dose, 
which allows a single daily dosage regimen. Data from 4 randomised double-masked 
multicentre studies indicate that a once daily dose of topical latanoprost 0.005%
is as effective as timolol 0.5% twice daily in the treatment of patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. A number of studies also
demonstrate that latanoprost enhances IOP-lowering effects when applied in
combination with other antiglaucoma agents. Latanoprost is well tolerated with
no, or barely detectable, conjunctival hyperaemia, and, unlike timolol, is not
associated with systemic adverse effects. However, 3 to 10% of patients treated
with latanoprost 0.005% have shown increased iris pigmentation after 3 to 4.5
months' treatment. In summary, the available data show that latanoprost is a
potent IOP-lowering agent with a number of positive features including a single
daily dosage regimen, a novel mechanism of action that enhances the IOP-lowering 
effect of contemporary agents, and a lack of systemic adverse effects. These
properties suitably poise latanoprost for a prominent position in the management 
of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension.


PMID: 8922563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Ophthalmologe. 1996 Oct;93(5):510-9.

[Principles of effectiveness control in therapy of glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Gloor B(1), Meier-Gibbons F.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universitätsspital Zürich.

There are two levels at which the efficacy of glaucoma therapy can be determined:
first, the therapeutic trial and second, the experience gained when treating
individual patients in the daily practice. At each level, various difficulties
arise. At either level, however, the main problem is that there is no way to
check on patient compliance. A trial on the efficacy of glaucoma therapy needs to
be thoroughly planned and performed, correct statistical methods must be used,
and the therapy must be critically evaluated a review of studies on glaucoma
therapy for the years 1988 and 1993 showed the difficulties in planning and
enforcing a correct study design. Most studies suffer from lack of adaptation to 
the characteristic features of primary open-angle glaucoma, the most important of
all being its chronic course with minimal changes over many years once pressure
is regulated. Thus, long-term studies are mandatory with simultaneous assessment 
of intraocular pressure (IOP), the visual field and the morphology of the optic
nerve head (ONH). Measurement of the IOP is the parameter that can be most
reliably checked on. Increased IOP represents the main cause for glaucoma
damage-not the damage itself. For the early detection of glaucoma, morphometry of
the ONH is the most reliable method, but it is still quite rough. The use of
perimetry for early detection and follow-up of glaucoma is overestimated. Given
the above-mentioned characteristic features of the disease, sufficient damage
with corresponding perimetric and morphometric changes does not occur in the
short time periods chosen for therapeutic trials. The future will show whether
the blood supply of the ONH will be of primary interest in glaucoma detection and
control of treatment efficacy. New and promising methods for measurement of the
blood supply of the ONH are emerging. Last but not least, control of efficacy in 
glaucoma treatment should include cost-effect analyses. Such studies are almost
nonexistent at present.


PMID: 9004872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


697. J Glaucoma. 1996 Oct;5(5):311-6.

Comparative study of the efficacy of argon laser trabeculoplasty for exfoliation 
and primary open-angle glaucoma.

Threlkeld AB(1), Hertzmark E, Sturm RT, Epstein DL, Allingham RR.

Author information: 
(1)Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate the efficacy of argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) for the
treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and of glaucoma associated with
exfoliation syndrome (EXF).
METHODS: Review of > 200 charts from patients treated with ALT between 1981 and
1987 identified 66 POAG and 29 EXF eyes that underwent initial 180 degrees
treatment. Variables including baseline intraocular pressure (IOP), age, sex,
angle pigmentation, and follow-up IOP were studied with numerous statistical
analyses. Multiple failure modes were used to define failure rate. All POAG and
EXF patients were white.
RESULTS: The baseline pre-ALT IOP was 23.2 +/- 6.1 mm Hg for the POAG group and
25.8 +/- 5.9 mm Hg for the EXF group (p < .06). Mean follow-up time was 27 +/- 22
months for POAG eyes and 23 +/- 20 months for EXF eyes. Using failure mode 4
(glaucoma surgery, third laser, IOP < or = 22 mm Hg, or two consecutive IOPs >
85% of original baseline IOP), the 1-year failure rates were 40% (POAG) and 18%
(EXF), and the 3-year rates were 58% (POAG) and 47% (EXF), p < 0.89 by log-rank
test. A Cox proportional hazards model controlling for baseline IOP, age, sex,
and angle pigmentation demonstrated that exfoliation status did not affect
progression to filtering surgery (p > 0.60).
CONCLUSION: Using multiple failure modes, the results suggest that the success
rate of ALT in exfoliation glaucoma tends to decrease over time, but then
stabilizes at this reduced value at a level similar to that of POAG. By 3 years, 
there is a substantial failure rate in both POAG eyes and EXF eyes. Although the 
initial response to ALT in EXF patients is greater, the long-term outcome is
similar for both groups.


PMID: 8897230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Ophthalmology. 1996 Oct;103(10):1706-12.

Laser trabeculoplasty for primary open-angle glaucoma.

[No authors listed]

The purpose of the Committee on Ophthalmic Procedure Assessments is to evaluate
on a scientific basis new and existing ophthalmic tests, devices, and procedures 
for their safety, efficacy, clinical effectiveness, and appropriate uses.
Evaluations include examination of available literature, epidemiological analyses
when appropriate, and compilation of opinions from recognized experts and other
interested parties. After appropriate review by all contributors, including legal
counsel, assessments are submitted to the Academy's Board of Trustees for
consideration as official Academy policy.


PMID: 8874447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Aust Fam Physician. 1996 Sep;25(9):1405-8, 1410-1.

Assessing for glaucoma in general practice.

Jackson C(1), Loane M, Glasson W.

Author information: 
(1)University of Queensland Centre for General Practice, Mater Hospital,
Brisbane.

Examining patients appropriately for primary open angle glaucoma in the general
practice setting has traditionally been extremely difficult. The authors review
important issues in the early detection of primary open angle glaucoma and
discuss new assessment tools to assist GPs in this area.


PMID: 8840563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Arch Ophthalmol. 1996 Sep;114(9):1073-8.

Pars plana vitrectomy in the management of phakic and pseudophakic malignant
glaucoma.

Harbour JW(1), Rubsamen PE, Palmberg P.

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Miami 
School of Medicine, Fla.

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 1998 Jan;116(1):118.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the indications for and outcome of pars plana vitrectomy 
in the management of phakic and pseudophakic malignant glaucoma.
DESIGN: Retrospective review.
SETTING: Tertiary referral ophthalmic hospital.
PATIENTS: Twenty-two patients (24 eyes) who underwent pars plana vitrectomy in
the management of malignant glaucoma.
RESULTS: Fourteen eyes were phakic and 10 were pseudophakic at the initial
vitrectomy. The primary indication for vitrectomy was failure of other therapies.
In phakic eyes, the initial vitrectomy was successful in terminating malignant
glaucoma without further surgery in 7 (100%) of 7 eyes that underwent lensectomy 
and in 5 (71%) of 7 eyes that not did not undergo lensectomy. The primary
indication for lensectomy was corneal edema caused by lens-corneal touch. In
pseudophakic eyes, the initial vitrectomy was successful in 9 (90%) of 10 eyes.
Removal of the intraocular lens was performed in 1 eye. Perioperative
complications included transient serous choroidal detachment in 2 eyes, transient
exudative retinal detachment in 1 eye, and suprachoroidal hemorrhage in 1 eye.
CONCLUSIONS: Pars plana vitrectomy is effective in treating phakic and
pseudophakic malignant glaucoma. Success is contingent on establishing a pathway 
for aqueous flow into the anterior chamber, which usually is accompanied by
intraoperative deepening of the anterior chamber. In phakic eyes, lensectomy may 
be considered for marked corneal edema, for dense cataract, or when the anterior 
chamber will not deepen during vitrectomy.


PMID: 8790091  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1996 Aug;24(3):279-82.

Suprachoroidal effusion following argon laser trabeculoplasty.

Kennedy CJ(1), Roden DM, McAllister IL.

Author information: 
(1)Lions Eye Institute, Centre of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, University of
Western Australia, Perth.

PURPOSE: This is first report of suprachoroidal effusion occurring subsequent to 
argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT).
METHODS: Review of the records of the patients in question.
RESULTS: A 77-year-old woman with bilateral pseudophakia and primary open-angle
glaucoma was treated with ALT when her visual fields deteriorated despite topical
timolol therapy. Although ALT was initially performed without complication in one
eye, treatment of the other eye led to a choroidal detachment. This was
associated with temporary reduction in visual acuity, shallowing of the anterior 
chamber and hypotony.
CONCLUSION: Suprachoroidal effusion appears to be another complication of ALT. In
the reported case, this application and its effects were temporary and resolved
with conservative management.


PMID: 8913133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Mayo Clin Proc. 1996 Jul;71(7):689-94.

Glaucoma: changing concepts and future directions.

Liesegang TJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Florida, USA.

Important concepts about glaucoma have evolved during the past few decades.
Glaucoma is a family of diseases not defined by a specific intraocular pressure
but rather as an optic neuropathy that can occur at any intraocular pressure
depending on the optic nerve susceptibility of the individual person. Increased
risk factors for idiopathic open-angle glaucoma include advancing age, black
race, a family history of glaucoma, and increased intraocular pressure. The
primary-care physician is in the prominent position of recognizing patients with 
increased risk factors or suspicious eye findings who should be referred to an
ophthalmologist. Topically applied ophthalmic medications have systemic side
effects that must be recognized and monitored by the primary-care physician. In
the United States, glaucoma is usually treated with topically applied
medications; laser or surgical therapy is done if medical treatment fails. The
National Eye Institute is conducting multicenter studies to confirm whether this 
is still the most appropriate strategy for this common disease.

DOI: 10.1016/S0025-6196(11)63007-3 
PMID: 8656711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1996 Jun;208(6):A9-13.

[Primary chronic open angle glaucoma--are there vascular risk factors?].

[Article in German]

Drance SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Kanada.


PMID: 8965457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Br J Ophthalmol. 1996 May;80(5):389-93.

Number of people with glaucoma worldwide.

Quigley HA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wilmer Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore
21287, USA.

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1996 May;80(5):385-6.
    Br J Ophthalmol. 1997 Jan;81(1):93.

AIM: To estimate the prevalence of glaucoma among people worldwide.
METHODS: Available published data on glaucoma prevalence were reviewed to
determine the relation of open angle and angle closure glaucoma with age in
people of European, African, and Asian origin. A comparison was made with
estimated world population data for the year 2000.
RESULTS: The number of people with primary glaucoma in the world by the year 2000
is estimated at nearly 66.8 million, with 6.7 million suffering from bilateral
blindness. In developed countries, fewer than 50% of those with glaucoma are
aware of their disease. In the developing world, the rate of known disease is
even lower.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma is the second leading cause of vision loss in the world.
Improved methods of screening and therapy for glaucoma are urgently needed.


PMCID: PMC505485
PMID: 8695555  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Postgrad Med. 1996 May;99(5):247-8, 251-2, 257-9, Pass;M.

Recognizing glaucoma. A guide for the primary care physician. .

Chaudhry I(1), Wong S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Temple University School of Medicine,
Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA.

Glaucoma is a group of diseases leading to characteristic cupping and damage of
the optic nerve head associated with progressive visual loss. The exact mechanism
of damage is unknown, but current research is pointing toward a multifactorial
disease process, in which elevated intraocular pressure is just one of the
factors. Early detection and proper management are imperative because of the
disease's prevalence, progressive and often insidious nature, and significant
associated morbidity.


PMID: 8650090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Glaucoma. 1996 Apr;5(2):127-34.

Impact of intraocular pressure on venous outflow from the globe: a hypothesis
regarding IOP-dependent vascular damage in normal-tension and hypertensive
glaucoma.

Bito LZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032,
USA.

Increasing focus on so-called normal-tension glaucoma has raised questions
concerning the mechanism by which intraocular pressure (IOP) may play a role in
the pathophysiology of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. However, examination of
pressure-relationships suggests that an increase of a few mm Hg in IOP within the
normal-tension range may double the magnitude of one important physiologic
parameter, the magnitude of the intravascular waterfall effect at the exit of the
central retinal vein (CRV) from the globe. This, in turn, increases the
pulsatility or the velocity and turbulence of blood flow, depending on the extent
of the restriction to venous outflow at the passage of the CRV through the lamina
cribrosa. In the absence of such restriction, increased CRV pulsatility,
especially in combination with brief IOP spikes, can be expected to cause foci of
microvascular collapse in the optic nerve head. These foci can be converted to
permanent vascular defects depending on additional risk factors, such as abnormal
blood rheology ro platelet aggregation. Greater than normal laminal restrictions 
can, on the other hand, reduce perfusion pressure and can cause
turbulence-induced endothelial damage and thickening of the CRV wall, ultimately 
further reducing perfusion pressure. These considerations suggest the hypothesis 
that the size and configuration of the venous outflow channel through the lamina 
cribrosa is a primary determinant of the extent of vascular and ultimately
neuronal damage that occurs at a given IOP level in normal-tension and
hypertensive primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 8795745  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1996 Apr;7(2):99-108.

Current imaging of the optic disk and retinal nerve fiber layer.

Burk RO(1), Völcker HE.

Author information: 
(1)Ruprecht-Karls-Universitat Heidelberg Department of Ophthalmology, Germany.

The optic nerve head and the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) are the sites of
clinically detectable glaucomatous tissue damage. Photographic techniques are
used to document the optic disk and the RNFL to monitor patients with suspected
primary open-angle glaucoma or to follow-up patients already suffering from this 
disease. New techniques such as laser scanning tomography (LST), scanning laser
polarimetry, and optical coherence tomography have been introduced to quantify
structural alterations with the aim of early detection of optic nerve or RNFL
damage prior to functional loss. These novel, additional diagnostic tools are
currently being evaluated in clinical practice. While scanning laser polarimetry 
and optical coherence tomography are discussed elsewhere in this volume, articles
on LST and conventional techniques are considered here. Imaging and computed data
processing allow for three-dimensional in vivo measurements in the range of
micrometers. With regard to the structure of the optic nerve head, this aspect in
the evaluation of the optic disk can be based on quantitative topographic data.
We expect "topometry" to become an important additional tool in the early
diagnosis and follow-up of patients with glaucoma. However, computed parameter
readings should always be evaluated in a clinical context. The goal is to
improve, combine, and integrate all the different diagnostic approaches to
improve patient care for the benefit of those suffering from glaucoma.


PMID: 10163330  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Br J Hosp Med. 1996 Mar 20-Apr 2;55(6):312-4.

Glaucoma: current thinking.

Hitchings RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.

This article reviews primary open-angle glaucoma as a cause of blindness. New
thoughts on causation, identification and case finding, progression and
treatments are discussed.


PMID: 8696623  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Surv Ophthalmol. 1996 Mar-Apr;40(5):379-90.

The extracellular matrix and its modulation in the trabecular meshwork.

Yue BY(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Illinois at Chicago, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, Lions of Illinois Eye Research Institute, Chicago, USA.

The extracellular matrix (ECM) in the trabecular meshwork is is believed to be
essential for maintenance of the normal outflow system. Excessive, abnormal
accumulations of ECM materials have been noted in the trabecular meshwork of eyes
obtained from patients with primary open angle glaucoma. This review summarizes
the current knowledge regarding the composition of this matrix and the receptors 
for ECM proteins in the trabecular meshwork. Modulations of the ECM elements by
constituents in the aqueous humor after phagocytic challenges and by
glucocorticoids are also described. The ECM is known to regulate cell
differentiation and cell behavior in a number of systems. It will thus be of
particular interest to establish the relationship between the modulated ECM and
the functional status of trabecular meshwork cells and to examine the possible
relevance of such modulation to outflow resistance.


PMID: 8779084  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Ann Pharmacother. 1996 Jan;30(1):43-54.

Comparison of the ocular beta-blockers.

Sorensen SJ(1), Abel SR.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacy Department, UH 1410. Indiana University Medical Center, Indianapolis,
IN 46202, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the similarities and differences among the ocular
beta-blockers. Important considerations when comparing these agents are the
differences in systemic adverse effects, local tolerability, and cost.
DATA SOURCE: Information was retrieved from a MEDLINE search of the
English-language literature and bibliographic reviews of review articles. Index
terms included beta-blockers, glaucoma, timolol, levobunolol, betaxolol,
metipranolol, and carteolol.
STUDY SELECTION: Emphasis was placed on eyedrop studies, as well as properly
designed and executed clinical trials that assessed dosage, dosing interval,
therapeutic response, adverse effects, and cost.
DATA EXTRACTION: Data from several studies were evaluated according to the study 
design, therapeutic response, and adverse effects.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Timolol maleate, levobunolol, metipranolol, and carteolol have
similar effectiveness in lowering intraocular pressure; however, levobunolol and 
timolol gel forming solution may have an advantage of once-daily dosing. Studies 
have not been published comparing the clinical efficacy of timolol hemihydrate
with that of other ocular beta-blockers. Metipranolol is cost effective in
treating primary open-angle glaucoma; however, it has been associated with more
ocular burning, stinging, and granulomatous anterior uveitis than other agents.
The intrinsic sympathomimetic activity of carteolol has not yet displayed a
definite advantage over the other agents in terms of optic disk perfusion and
systemic adverse effects. The control of intraocular pressure with betaxolol has 
not always been as good as with timolol; however, betaxolol has some advantages
over timolol and the other topical beta-blockers in terms of systemic adverse
effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering cost, efficacy, and safety, timolol maleate is the
recommended formulary agent because the other agents cannot consistently show an 
outstanding advantage.


PMID: 8773166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Annu Rev Public Health. 1996;17:121-36.

The epidemiology and control of open angle glaucoma: a population-based
perspective.

Tielsch JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene
and Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Chronic open angle glaucoma is an etiologically heterogeneous group of diseases
characterized by damage to the optic nerve, resulting in peripheral visual loss
that can progress to involve the fovea and central vision. Open angle glaucoma
can be divided into primary conditions and conditions which are secondary to
another ocular or systemic disease. Causes of secondary glaucoma include uveitis,
cataract, trauma, and disorders affecting the development structure of the angle.
This review focuses on primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), since it accounts for 
the vast majority of the disease burden in the US population and its etiology
remains unknown.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.pu.17.050196.001005 
PMID: 8724220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Ophthalmology. 1995 Dec;102(12):1760-9.

Outcomes of trabeculectomy for primary open-angle glaucoma.

Nouri-Mahdavi K, Brigatti L, Weitzman M, Caprioli J.

PURPOSE: To determine the long-term functional and structural outcomes in
patients treated with trabeculectomy for primary open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: Records of 78 consecutive patients (78 eyes) who had their first
trabeculectomy were studied retrospectively (duration of follow-up, 25 to 112
months). Serial automated perimetry and stereoscopic optic disc photographs were 
used to assess the long-term efficacy of trabeculectomy to prevent progressive
glaucomatous damage. Stereoscopic optic disc photographs were available for 29
eyes (38%). Criteria for intraocular pressure control were a minimum intraocular 
pressure reduction of 20% and intraocular pressure at or below 20 mmHg.
RESULTS: There was no evidence of progression of glaucomatous damage in 81% and
65% of the eyes after 3 and 6 years, respectively. The visual field deteriorated 
in 16 eyes (21%) and progressive structural optic nerve damage occurred in 4 eyes
(5%) during follow-up. Deterioration of the optic nerve head in the absence of
visual field progression was detected in three (4%) of those eyes. In 19 eyes
(25%), further glaucoma surgery was performed. The probability of successful
intraocular pressure control after a single operation was 48% and 40% at 3 and 5 
years, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Progressive glaucomatous damage occurs in about one third of eyes
with moderate to severe primary open-angle glaucoma over a 6-year follow-up after
trabeculectomy.


PMID: 9098275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1995 Dec;99(12):1291-302.

[Trabecular meshwork and elastin].

[Article in Japanese]

Segawa K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shinshu University School of Medicine,
Nagano-ken, Japan.

Evidence that elastic fibers with elastin exists in the trabecular meshwork (TM) 
and play an important role in aqueous outflow resistance is presented. The
elastic fibers consist of abundant microfibrillar components containing
glycoproteins and amorphous components containing elastin. If TM tissues are
digested with elastase, the cells composing trabecular sheets and Schlemm's canal
are separated with a decrease of elastin and come in contact with each other with
reproduction of elastin. When the anterior segments of eyes are perfused with
elastase, the intraocular pressure drops with a decrease of outflow resistance. A
large quantity of elastin exists in fine fibrils lying underneath the trabecular 
wall of Schlemm's canal in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) eyes, in
pseudoexfoliation (PE) materials of PE glaucoma eyes and in basement membrane and
fine fibril-like materials of steroid glaucoma eyes. In congenital and juvenile
glaucoma eyes, however, instead of elastin, fibronectin localizes in basement
membrane and fine fibril-like materials. When TM tissues respond to steroid
hormone, the tissues synthesize and secret microfibrils and elastin, components
of the elastic fibers. Elastin gene expresses in human TM. Orally administered
elastase is transferred in aqueous humor and digests elastin in TM. Therefore it 
is possible that such a drug decreases the outflow resistance of glaucoma eyes.


PMID: 8571852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Optom Vis Sci. 1995 Oct;72(10):753-5.

On the short-term variability of measurements of intraocular pressure.

Aggarwala KR(1).

Author information: 
(1)State University of New York, State College of Optometry, New York, USA.

Measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP) (tonometry) is conducted routinely in
the eye clinic for the diagnosis and management of primary open-angle glaucoma.
Mean IOP may be influenced by a number of factors including ocular accommodation,
spontaneous pulsations of IOP, and the effect of repeated applanation. A review
of some of the factors that influence IOP should help us gain a perspective on
the reliability of diurnal tonometry in the diagnosis of primary open-angle
glaucoma.


PMID: 8570165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt. 1995 Sep;15 Suppl 2:S27-34.

Screening for primary open-angle glaucoma: a review.

Harper R(1), Reeves B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry, Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, UK.


PMID: 8532341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1995 Apr;6(2):67-70.

Therapeutic rationale for normal-tension glaucoma.

Hitchings RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, UK.

Three problems exist when assessing the effectiveness of treatment for
normal-tension glaucoma. Firstly, it is a common type of primary open-angle
glaucoma. Secondly, the extent to which it is a pressure-sensitive disease
remains to be seen. Thirdly, it is possible that normal-tension glaucoma is a
collection of different disease entities. This review will look at the
therapeutic options available for treatment and divide them into these which
attempt to moderate IOP, and those which attempt to alter blood flow.


PMID: 10150860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1995 Apr;6(2):36-45.

Pattern of visual field defects in normal-tension and high-tension glaucoma.

Araie M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

There are probably two major types of causative factors in open-angle glaucoma:
pressure-dependent and pressure-independent. If clinical features such as the
pattern of visual field defects differ between normal-tension and high-tension
glaucoma, the differences may provide an insight for discriminating between the
pressure-dependent and the pressure-independent damage in open-angle glaucoma.
This article gives a brief review of the most recent studies including reports
wherein progression or pattern of visual field defects in normal-tension and
high-tension glaucoma or primary open-angle glaucoma are addressed. Further
deterioration of the visual field in 5 years is expected in about 50% of eyes
with normal-tension glaucoma in which intraocular pressure is one of the
contributing factors. This figure may be greater than that seen in eyes with
primary open-angle glaucoma where intraocular pressure is controlled with surgery
in the middle teens. When eyes with normal-tension glaucoma and high-tension
glaucoma or primary open-angle glaucoma were matched for extent of overall visual
field loss, many studies noted a difference in the pattern of visual field
defects between the two groups. Visual field defects in normal-tension glaucoma
are relatively more localized and closer to fixation, especially in the nasal
superior quadrant and may be more predominant in the lower hemifield. Results of 
other psychophysical tests also appear to support the above findings.


PMID: 10150856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1995 Apr;6(2):30-5.

Fluorescein angiographic characteristics of the optic disc in ischemic and
glaucomatous optic neuropathy.

Arnold AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jules Stein Eye Institute, UCLA 90024-7005, USA.

Fluorescein angiography has been utilized to study the microvascular supply of
the prelaminar optic disc and the peripapillary choroid. Observation of
hypofluorescence of these structures both in patients with anterior ischemic
optic neuropathy (AION) and with chronic open-angle glaucoma (COAG) has led to
speculation as to the pathogenetic mechanism in each disorder. In AION, studies
consistently show defective filling of the disc without atrophy, suggesting
hypoperfusion as a primary mechanism. In COAG, defective filling is common, but
typically occurs in regions of atrophy or increased cupping, which may show
hypofluorescence as a nonspecific sequela of disc tissue loss. The
hypofluorescence seen in some ocular hypertensive patients supports but does not 
confirm a primary vascular role in the pathogenesis of COAG. Peripapillary
choroidal filling delay outside the range of normal is consistently seen in
arteritic AION, but not in either nonarteritic AION or COAG. This finding
suggests that any vasculopathy present in these disorders is distal within the
branches of the posterior ciliary artery system.


PMID: 10150855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1995 Apr;6(2):10-4.

The impact of exfoliation syndrome on therapeutic efficacy in open-angle
glaucoma.

Tarkkanen A(1), Hietanen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

Exfoliation syndrome is the most common identifiable cause leading to chronic
open-angle glaucoma. It affects the treatment of glaucoma in various ways. The
prognosis of capsular glaucoma (exfoliative glaucoma) is worse than that of
open-angle glaucoma. Medical therapy and the long-term effect of laser treatment 
seem to be unsatisfactory in capsular glaucoma. Surgical intervention may be
needed early, although eyes with exfoliation syndrome are prone to surgical
complications. Finally, absolute glaucoma and blindness are more common in
capsular glaucoma than in primary open-angle glaucoma. This article deals with
the impact of exfoliation syndrome on therapeutic efficacy in open-angle
glaucoma. It reviews the literature between October 1993 and September 1994; only
a few studies concerning this important subject have been published during the
given period.


PMID: 10150850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Ophthalmic Surg. 1995 Mar-Apr;26(2):108-9.

What is the appropriate treatment for patients with primary open-angle glaucoma: 
medicine, laser, or primary surgery?

Migdal C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Western Eye Hospital, London, United Kingdom.


PMID: 7596534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Ophthalmic Res. 1995;27 Suppl 1:136-42.

The blood-aqueous barrier in eyes with pseudoexfoliation syndrome.

Küchle M(1), Nguyen NX, Hannappel E, Naumann GO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.

Eyes with pseudoexfoliation syndrome (PEX) frequently show clinical signs of
impairment of the blood-aqueous barrier. Herein we give an overview of recent
studies that analyzed the blood-aqueous barrier in eyes with PEX.METHODS: The
authors review and summarize recent studies including quantification of aqueous
flare in eyes with PEX using the laser flare cell meter (LFCM; Kowa FC-1000) in
comparison with normal eyes and eyes with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG),
quantification of aqueous flare in eyes with PEX with and without secondary
open-angle glaucoma (SOAG), and quantitative biochemical determination of total
aqueous protein concentration in PEX eyes. In addition, studies of noninvasive
quantification of the blood-aqueous barrier breakdown following trabeculectomy
and following phacoemulsification with intraocular lens implantation in eyes with
and without PEX are reviewed.
RESULTS: In eyes with manifest PEX, both aqueous flare and aqueous protein
concentration were significantly increased in comparison with normal control eyes
and eyes with POAG. Flare values in PEX eyes with SOAG were not significantly
different from flare values in PEX eyes without SOAG. Following trabeculectomy as
well as following cataract surgery, breakdown of the blood-aqueous barrier as
determined by quantification of aqueous flare was significantly higher in eyes
with PEX than in eyes without PEX.
CONCLUSIONS: Impairment of the blood-aqueous barrier with increase in aqueous
protein concentration is a feature of PEX and may be quantified both by flare
measurement and by biochemical protein determination. The extensive blood-aqueous
barrier breakdown in eyes with PEX following intraocular surgery is an important 
risk factor for early or late postoperative complications. The alterations of the
blood-aqueous barrier should be considered in the medical and surgical treatment 
of eyes with PEX.


PMID: 8577452  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Eye (Lond). 1995;9 ( Pt 1):1-23.

Doyne Lecture. The pathology of the outflow system in primary and secondary
glaucoma.

Lee WR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Glasgow, UK.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1995.2 
PMID: 7713235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Optom Clin. 1995;4(4):97-111.

Laser therapy and angle-closure glaucoma.

Fleming JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ocular Disease Service, Northeastern State University College of Optometry,
Tahlequah, Oklahoma, USA.

All forms of primary and secondary pupillary block angle-closure glaucoma result 
in an increased resistance to aqueous flow at the pupil margin. As the pressure
in the posterior chamber increases, the iris bows forward until the trabecular
meshwork is occluded and aqueous outflow is interrupted. Most pupillary block
glaucomas are ocular urgencies and require immediate medical therapy to lower
intraocular pressure. The definitive treatment for pupillary block is laser
therapy. By creating a hole in the iris, the pressure in the anterior and
posterior chambers is equalized, allowing the angle to remain open. This
discussion reviews the indications, contraindications, and techniques involved in
the laser management of angle-closure glaucomas.


PMID: 7488801  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Klin Oczna. 1994 Oct-Nov;96(10-11):333-9.

[Pathomechanism of anatomical, clinical and functional lesions in primary
open-angle glaucoma and advances in diagnosis and monitoring].

[Article in Polish]

Nizankowska MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Okulistycznej AM we Wrocławiu.

Erratum in
    Klin Oczna 1995 Sep-Oct;97(9-10):313.


PMID: 7715152  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Geriatrics. 1994 Sep;49(9):37-42, 45; quiz 46-7.

Age-related vision changes: a primary care guide.

Carter TL(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Optometry, State University of New York (SUNY).

Visual impairment becomes more prevalent with age. A person has "low vision" when
legally blind or partially sighted. In addition, many older patients have
functional visual impairment that affects their ability to read, even with
corrective lenses. Normal visual changes that occur with aging include
presbyopia, decreased contrast sensitivity, decreased dark/light adaptation, and 
delayed glare recovery. The four most prevalent age-related ocular diseases are
macular degeneration, open-angle glaucoma, cataract, and diabetic retinopathy.
The primary care practitioner can identify patients with visual problems with a
careful history and in-office tests of visual acuity. Patients with visual
impairments should be referred to an eye care practitioner for a more
comprehensive ocular evaluation.


PMID: 8088558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Surv Ophthalmol. 1994 Jul-Aug;39(1):23-42.

Mechanisms of optic nerve damage in primary open angle glaucoma.

Fechtner RD(1), Weinreb RN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Louisville,
Kentucky.

Several mechanisms have been postulated to explain the optic nerve damage that
occurs in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG). No single mechanism can adequately 
explain the great variations in susceptibility to damage and the patterns of
damage seen in this syndrome. The etiology of POAG is likely to be
multifactorial. Mechanical, vascular and other factors may influence individual
susceptibility to optic nerve damage. An enhanced understanding of the nature of 
the optic nerve damage in POAG and improved methods of study may result in
earlier diagnosis or may allow us to distinguish among different pathological
processes all currently grouped under the diagnosis of POAG. As we gain a better 
understanding of the neuropharmacology and cellular biology of injury and repair 
of the visual system we will undoubtedly refine the concepts of glaucomatous
optic neuropathy.


PMID: 7974188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Am J Ophthalmol. 1994 Jun 15;117(6):706-27.

Genetic clues to glaucoma's secrets. The L Edward Jackson Memorial Lecture. Part 
2.

Lichter PR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, W. K. Kellogg Eye Center, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor 48105.

Major advances in the medical and surgical treatment of glaucoma have occurred
since the first Edward Jackson Memorial lecture was delivered 50 years ago.
Collaborative clinical trials under the sponsorship of the National Eye Institute
are adding to our knowledge about which patients to treat and how to treat them. 
Despite these clinical advances, an understanding of the pathophysiologic and
biochemical mechanisms that cause the disease remain unknown. The 40th
anniversary of the discovery of the DNA double helix provides a springboard for a
historical perspective on the heritability of glaucoma. A large pedigree is
presented of a family with autosomal dominantly inherited primary open-angle
glaucoma of juvenile onset. This is the second family with this clinical entity
to show genetic linkage to the long arm of chromosome 1. Other forms of primary
open-angle glaucoma with adult onset are presented wherein the inheritance
pattern suggests autosomal recessive transmission. Thus far, linkage analysis
does not suggest a genetic relationship to the autosomal dominant juvenile-onset 
pedigree that links to the long arm of chromosome 1. It is hoped that an emphasis
on clinical and molecular genetic studies of glaucoma will yield protein defects 
that can be targeted for treatment. It is emphasized that the clinical
ophthalmologist can participate in this important work by finding families with
glaucoma and collaborating with individuals capable of extracting DNA,
manipulating it, and performing genetic linkage and positional cloning studies.


PMID: 8198155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Surv Ophthalmol. 1994 May;38 Suppl:S65-70; discussion S70-1.

Color Doppler imaging: methodology and preliminary results in glaucoma.

Sergott RC(1), Aburn NS, Trible JR, Costa VP, Lieb WE Jr, Flaharty PM.

Author information: 
(1)Wills Eye Hospital, Neuro-Ophthalmology Service, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Erratum in
    Surv Ophthalmol 1994 Sep-Oct;39(2):165.

Color Doppler imaging (CDI) has recently been applied to investigation of the
normal vascular anatomy of the eye and orbit as well as a variety of conditions
in which vascular abnormalities are important. Combining B-scan ultrasonography
and Doppler waveform analysis, CDI enables noninvasive serial examination of
blood velocity and vascular resistance from the ophthalmic, short posterior,
ciliary and central retinal arteries. This technology is being used to study the 
ophthalmic circulation of patients with primary open-angle or normotension
glaucoma.


PMID: 7940149  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Surv Ophthalmol. 1994 May;38 Suppl:S18-21; discussion S22.

Disk hemorrhages and retinal vein occlusions in glaucoma.

Krakau CE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Malmö General Hospital, Sweden.

There are several reasons to consider disk hemorrhages, branch retinal vein
occlusions and central retinal vein occlusion as manifestations of the same
vascular disease, the only difference among them being the size of the vessel
affected. There is a close association of these vascular events with open angle
glaucoma, and all of them increase with increasing follow-up time. The
morphological changes described in the retinal veins in glaucoma and in central
vein occlusions are endothelial proliferations causing progressive increase of
flow resistance. Similar changes most probably also cause branch vein occlusions 
and disk hemorrhages. This vascular condition which obstructs the vessels with
hindrance of the blood flow and impaired nutrition of neuronal tissue might be
the primary cause of glaucoma.


PMID: 7940141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


730. J Fla Med Assoc. 1994 Apr;81(4):268-71.

Pathophysiology of accommodation and presbyopia. Understanding the clinical
implications.

Schachar RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Texas at Arlington, Dallas.

As a consequence of a new understanding of the mechanism of accommodation, a
unique surgical procedure has been developed which can reverse presbyopia. The
basic pathophysiology involved in the development of presbyopia may have
implications in the etiology and treatment of ocular hypertension and primary
open angle glaucoma.


PMID: 8046368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Vestn Oftalmol. 1994 Jan-Mar;110(1):33-5.

[Antioxidant therapy of primary glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Filina AA.


PMID: 8191662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Int Ophthalmol Clin. 1994 Summer;34(3):163-72.

Early trabeculectomy in the management of primary open-angle glaucoma.

McHam ML(1), Migdal CS, Netland PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston
02114.


PMID: 7960511  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Int Ophthalmol Clin. 1994 Summer;34(3):149-61.

The role of laser trabeculoplasty as primary therapy for open-angle glaucoma.

Smith SD(1), Netland PA.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston 02114.


PMID: 7960510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Dec;97(12):1353-69.

[Progress in medical treatment for glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Azuma I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College.

Recently, an epidemiological study was conducted in Japan by Shiose, et al, and
the prevalence of open-angle glaucoma in Japanese aged 40 years or older was
found to be 2.62% [primary open-angle glaucoma 0.58%, low-tension glaucoma (LTG) 
2.04%]. Historically, treatment for glaucoma has been based on lowering
intraocular pressure. It is also necessary to improve intraocular blood flow. In 
the beginning of the study, the effect of anti-glaucoma agents on choroidal blood
flow was examined in rabbit eyes. An increase of choroidal blood flow was found
following topical application of the prostaglandin-related compound isopropyl
unoprostone (UF-021) and the adrenergic alpha-1 antagonist bunazosin
hydrochloride (DE-070). Then, a new vasoconstrictor, endothelin, showed strong
effects on intraocular pressure, intraocular circulation, and visual function in 
rabbit eyes. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) was found to be a marked vasoconstrictor with
prolonged reduction of intraocular pressure and the blood flow in the choroid and
optic nerve head. The effects were suppressed by Ca2+ channel blocker and
adrenergic alpha-1 blocker. Plasma concentration of ET-1 was determined by
radioimmunoassay in patients with glaucoma. A significantly high level of ET-1
concentration was seen in patients with LTG. Endothelin appears to be an
important tool for studying the pathogenesis of LTG. Finally, a prospective
clinical trial of the therapeutic effects of bunazosin hydrochloride was
performed in patients with LTG for one year. Clinical usefulness was evaluated by
changes in the mean deviation value of Humphrey perimetry. Satisfactory results
were obtained in maintaining the visual field and in reducing intraocular
pressure. In the light of our investigations, it is advisable to introduce an
adrenergic alpha-1 blocker or prostaglandin-related compound for reduction of
glaucomatous damages. We look forward to the development of the neuro-protective 
future glaucoma therapy.


PMID: 7904790  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Ophthalmic Surg. 1993 Nov;24(11):735-9.

Trabeculotomy ab externo: an alternative treatment in adult patients with primary
open-angle glaucoma.

Chihara E(1), Nishida A, Kodo M, Yoshimura N, Matsumura M, Yamamoto M, Tsukada T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan.

Seventy-nine adult patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) were randomly
assigned to treatment by modified trabeculotomy ab externo (TAB) (n = 44) and by 
trabeculectomy with adjunctive mitomycin C (TMC) (n = 35), and the postoperative 
outcomes achieved with these two techniques were compared. With TAB, the
probability of successful intraocular pressure control 1 year postoperatively was
.8644; with TMC, .8432; the difference is not significant (P = .7956). However,
postoperative complications such as corneal epithelial damage, bleb leaks,
hypotony, flat anterior chamber, and serous choroidal detachment were
significantly less frequent in the TAB group. Largely because of this latter
consideration, in selected cases, TAB may be a viable alternative to TMC.


PMID: 8290211  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Ann Med. 1993 Aug;25(4):309-15.

Glaucoma: changes in extracellular matrix in the optic nerve head.

Hernandez MR(1), Ye H.

Author information: 
(1)Schepens Eye Research Institute, Boston, MA 02114.

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), the most common form of glaucoma, is
characterized by irreversible loss of axons from the optic nerve. The site of
damage to the axons is at the level of the lamina cribrosa in the optic nerve
head. It has been hypothesized that structural and biochemical abnormalities in
the extracellular matrix (ECM) of the lamina cribrosa underlie the progressive
compressive and remodelling of this connective tissue in glaucoma. In this
review, we present evidence of specific changes in collagen and elastic fibers,
major ECM components in the lamina cribrosa of glaucomatous eyes.


PMID: 8217094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Br J Ophthalmol. 1993 Jul;77(7):445-8.

Primary surgery for primary open angle glaucoma--justified or not?

Hitchings RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.


PMCID: PMC504559
PMID: 8343475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1993 Apr;202(4):259-68.

[Exfoliation syndrome and open angle glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Konstas AG(1), Dimitracoulias N, Konstas PA.

Author information: 
(1)Universität für Augenheilkunde AHEPA-Hospital, Thessaloniki.

Terms such as "primary open angle glaucoma" and "chronic open angle glaucoma" are
used to include both exfoliation glaucoma and POAG and some studies fail even to 
consider the disorder (11). This approach, is inappropriate since exfoliation
glaucoma and POAG are different entities. Clinical and morphological evidence
supports the view that exfoliation glaucoma is a true secondary open-angle
glaucoma. The balance of ultrastructural evidence is in favour of exfoliation
glaucoma developing due to an accumulation of exfoliation material and pigment
within the outflow system of the affected eye. Clinically, exfoliation glaucoma
has a number of specific attributes which distinguish it from POAG. It has a
worse prognosis than POAG for medical therapy and ALT, but this may not apply in 
the case of prompt surgical intervention.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1045591 
PMID: 8392645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Surv Ophthalmol. 1993 Jan-Feb;37(4):293-305.

Initial treatment of glaucoma: surgery or medications.

Sherwood MB(1), Migdal CS, Hitchings RA, Sharir M, Zimmerman TJ, Schultz JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Florida, Gainesville.

Should surgery or medications be the initial therapy for primary open angle
glaucoma? In this set of articles, Drs. Sherwood, Migdal, and Hitchings present
evidence suggesting that filtration surgery provides better intraocular pressure 
control than does medical treatment, good (or better) visual field preservation, 
and visual acuity as good as that in medically treated fellow eyes. They also
cite cost effectiveness, quality of life, and possible adverse effects of medical
treatment on future surgery. Drs. Sharir and Zimmerman, on the other hand, favor 
initial medical therapy, questioning the validity of some reports on surgical
results, citing the risks of complications, and noting recent and current
progress in the development of antiglaucoma medications. Dr. Schultz' editorial
evaluates both points of view, concluding that additional prospective randomized 
tests may be useful and that either approach may be a viable option, as long as
it is individualized to each particular patient.


PMID: 8441955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Optom Clin. 1993;3(2):41-8.

Angle recession.

Fingeret M(1), Mathews TA, Fodera FA.

Author information: 
(1)Optometry Section, St. Albans Veterans Administration Extended Care Center,
New York.

Angle recession is a relatively common result of ocular injury, which, if
extensive, creates a noteworthy risk of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) and
glaucoma. The unilateral elevation in IOP is usually seen long after the injury
has occurred. The diagnosis is often made based on clinical suspicion, either
because of information obtained during the history-taking or from signs of ocular
trauma observed during the examination. The treatment of angle-recession glaucoma
is in many ways similar to that of primary open-angle glaucoma, although miotic
drugs and argon laser trabeculoplasty are controversial therapies for this
condition.


PMID: 8268695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Br J Ophthalmol. 1992 Oct;76(10):624-6.

Laser trabeculoplasty.

Coakes R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, King's College Hospital, Denmark Hill, London.

Using the now well established technique ALT is a safe and effective means of
lowering IOP in eyes with POAG, pigmentary glaucoma, and exfoliative glaucoma
though the effect diminishes with time. Pressure reduction with ALT is seldom
greater than 30% and eyes with an IOP of more than 28 mm Hg are unlikely to be
controlled for any length of time without additional treatment. ALT is probably
most suitable either for older patients whose glaucoma is not well controlled on 
medical treatment, or for patients with newly diagnosed open angle glaucoma, but 
without advanced field loss, as a primary treatment or in combination with a
non-miotic topical medication. In many it will defer surgery, in some
indefinitely.


PMCID: PMC505241
PMID: 1420046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1992 May;200(5):564-7.

[Pathogenesis and treatment of primary closed-angle glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Martin XD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinique ophtalmologique universitaire de Zurich.

With an incidence of about 1/1000, primary angle-closure glaucoma is 4 to 5 times
less frequent than primary open-angle glaucoma. It occurs most frequently due to 
pupillary block, itself both due to anatomical configuration and to either
physiological or pathological changes in the anterior chamber. Pupillary block
causes an increase of pressure in the posterior chamber, which leads to anterior 
displacement of the iris and, finally, to angle closure. The treatment of choice 
- dictated by the pathogenesis - consists of diminishing the posterior chamber
pressure by means of hyperosmotic agents such as glycerin per os or mannitol iv. 
After reduction of the posterior-chamber pressure has been attained, a mild
miotic, i.e. one which causes neither a strong miosis nor a flattening of the
anterior chamber, is administered. If it is an acute attack, the application of
these principles will permit normalization of pressure within about one hour.
Several therapeutic guidelines are proposed, adapted to certain classical
situations as well as to some less classical.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1045829 
PMID: 1614157  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Surv Ophthalmol. 1992 May-Jun;36(6):411-23.

Issues in the epidemiology and population-based screening of primary
angle-closure glaucoma.

Congdon N(1), Wang F, Tielsch JM.

Author information: 
(1)Dana Center for Preventive Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland.

Among Caucasians, it is well known that 75-95% of primary glaucoma is due to
open-angle glaucoma (POAG), with angle-closure (PACG) comprising only a very
small minority of cases. These figures are reversed among other groups such as
Asians and Eskimos, where PACG makes up 80-90% of primary glaucoma. Among
Eskimos, the prevalence of PACG has been reported as 2-8%, as compared to 0.1%
among Caucasians. It appears that a population tendency toward shallow anterior
chambers may explain the excess burden of PACG morbidity. Among Asians, the
prevalence of PACG is intermediate between Caucasians and Eskimos. Existing
biometrical data do not show a clear tendency toward shallower anterior chambers 
among Asians. PACG may be screened for on a population basis by means of various 
techniques that estimate axial or limbal anterior chamber depth, measure
intraocular pressure, or evaluate the optic disc or visual fields. Demographic
information and medical and family history will also be of great importance in
screening for PACG in large populations. Groups at increased risk for the disease
include women, individuals over 50, first-degree relatives of PACG probands, and 
hyperopes.


PMID: 1589856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


744. J Am Optom Assoc. 1992 Apr;63(4):252-6.

Argon laser trabeculoplasty: a review.

Richardson LE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University School of Optometry, Bloomington 47405.

A review of argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) indicates that it appears to be a
viable tool in the treatment of many forms of open angle glaucoma. It effectively
lowers intraocular pressure with few relative risks to the patient.
Unfortunately, its pressure-lowering effects diminish with time. The primary
risks of ALT are a transient rise in IOP (20 percent incidence) and the
development of peripheral anterior synechia (20-46 percent incidence). The
Glaucoma Laser Trial (GLT), a multi-institutional study, is currently evaluating 
the long-term effect of ALT.


PMID: 1587990  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1992 Apr;3(2):162-9.

Diagnostic concepts in open-angle glaucoma.

Douglas GR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Service, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Primary open-angle glaucoma is not yet fully understood in terms of its
pathophysiologic mechanisms. However, they are being addressed more completely in
the recent literature. To the list of known risk factors associated with this
disease, systemic influences are now being added. Primary open-angle glaucoma is 
becoming a much more complex disease as research uncovers associations and
relationships that were previously unknown. Without knowledge of these
mechanisms, the clinician is unable to adequately diagnose and treat the problem.
Advances in computer-based diagnostic tools have been made, and we are now
beginning to understand their value and limitations. However, whatever technology
has to offer, we must always remember that the ultimate decision on initial
diagnosis and further deterioration remains a clinical one.


PMID: 10149310  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Practitioner. 1992 Feb;236(1511):199-202.

Primary open-angle glaucoma.

Jay JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Western Infirmary, Glasgow.


PMID: 1598336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Optom Clin. 1992;2(3):113-25.

Clinicolegal aspects of vitreous and retinal detachment.

Classé JG.

Failure to diagnose retinal detachment is an important cause of professional
liability claims involving optometrists. To comply with medical standards,
dilation of the pupil and examination of the retinal periphery are required, both
for patients who are at risk for retinal detachment and for patients who are
symptomatic. Important risk factors include a history of previous detachment,
myopia, lattice retinal degeneration, aphakia and pseudophakia, YAG capsulotomy, 
treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma with miotic drugs, blunt ocular trauma, 
and the proliferative retinopathies. Patients with the symptoms of acute
posterior vitreous detachment must receive a dilated fundus examination,
evaluation of the retinal periphery, and assessment of the vitreous. If
examination results are negative, the patient should be warned of the symptoms of
retinal detachment and scheduled for reevaluation in 4 to 8 weeks. Examination
findings, warnings, recall appointments, and referral for treatment should be
documented in the patient's record of care.


PMID: 1463912  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Eye (Lond). 1992;6 ( Pt 3):257-66.

Laser microsclerostomy for primary open angle glaucoma: a review of laser
mechanisms and delivery systems.

Allan BD(1), Van Saarloos PP, Cooper RL, Constable IJ.

Author information: 
(1)Lions Eye Institute, Nedlands, Australia.

A number of different lasers and delivery systems are currently used in
experimental sclerostomy procedures. These are discussed with reference to their 
performance in terms of cutting accuracy and trauma to the adjacent tissues.
Lasers emitting wavelengths close to the absorption peaks of water in the
mid-infrared region and organic polymers in the far ultraviolet region have a
short absorption pathlength in the sclera and produce the least adjacent thermal 
tissue trauma. These ablating lasers cannot be delivered gonioscopically, and
contact endoscopic techniques trap hot expanding gases within the forming
sclerostomy channel causing secondary thermal and mechanical damage. Optimal
results should be obtained using an ablating laser delivered either through an
open mask or a modified endoscopic system incorporating an adequate exhaust
mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1992.49 
PMID: 1446757  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Eye (Lond). 1992;6 ( Pt 3):243-7.

Rational choice of therapy in primary open angle glaucoma.

Jay JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tennent Institute of Ophthalmology, Western Infirmary, Glasgow.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1992.47 
PMID: 1446755  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 1992;244:61-72.

Measurement of retinal nerve fiber layer thickness and its functional
correlations with the visual field.

Schwartz B(1), Takamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston.

We have developed a technique for stereophotogrammetric measurements of retinal
nerve fiber layer thickness at the disc margin. This technique has a
reproducibility ranging from 3.9% to 6.0% in normal, ocular hypertensive and high
pressure open angle glaucomatous eyes. The presence of a halo or scleral crescent
had no effect on the reproducibility of the measurements. The measurements have
shown that ocular hypertensive eyes have about an 18% decrease of retinal nerve
fiber layer thickness compared to normals. High pressure open angle glaucomatous 
eyes have about a 43% decrease in retinal nerve fiber layer thickness compared to
normals. This technique allows the development of maps of retinal nerve fiber
layer thickness so that localized changes at the disc margin can be detected. The
thinnest nerve fiber layer occurs primarily in the temporal segment. This
technique has also correlated measurements of nerve fiber layer thickness with
other measurements of the optic disc, particularly showing a significant
correlation with area of pallor as well as measurements of the width of optic
disc cup at about halfway between surface and the bottom of the cup. A
significant correlation with visual field loss has been shown in high pressure
open angle glaucomatous eyes, primarily with the temporal quadrant of the retinal
nerve fiber layer and the nasal visual field. The rate of the visual field change
in primary open angle glaucoma has been correlated with the initial nerve fiber
layer thickness, with the greater the retinal nerve fiber layer thickness the
greater the rate of the visual field loss during follow-up. These findings
suggest that retinal nerve fiber layer thickness discriminates between normal,
ocular hypertensive eyes as well as those with open angle glaucomas and may be
useful in following patients with open angle glaucoma prior to development of the
visual field loss.


PMID: 1297518  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 1992;244:27-35.

Structural changes of the lamina cribrosa and of the trabeculum in primary open
angle glaucoma (POAG).

Spileers W(1), Goethals M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Ophtalmology, K.U.Leuven, Belgium.


PMID: 1297515  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 1992;244:1-16.

Recent pathogenic concepts of primary open angle glaucoma and soft glaucoma
(POAG).

Neetens A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Ophthalmology, University of Antwerp, Belgium.

Loss of mainly field in POAG is due to Schnabel's cavernous atrophy of the axons 
at their scleral passage, built up by aligned stacks of glial collagen (IV and I)
tissue plates, which contain capillaries. Organisation, size and structural
surroundings encircle isolated or grouped axons not evenly distributed. The
stereotype pattern of fieldloss linked to a characteristic optic nerve lesion
suggests POAG be considered a N.O. disease as raised IOP may be only one of the
risk factors. Are cavernous atrophy (loss of field) and the trabecular spaces
narrowing (rise of IOP) both the result of the same pathogenic mechanism acting
on the collagen fiber (IV and I) of the scleral coat, resp. lamina cribrosa
(posterior segment) and trabecular meshwork (anterior segment)? If so, IOP-rise
only worsens the condition as will do a hemodynamic energy crisis at the level of
the axons. Interactive dominance at any of both levels may explain unexpected
discrepancies between IOP and fieldloss. Considering "to treat or not to treat"
accurate field loss predictability testing, urgent research topic, are discussed.


PMID: 1297505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Fr Ophtalmol. 1992;15(8-9):463-8.

[Trabeculoretraction by argon laser. 5 and 8-year results].

[Article in French]

Moulin F(1), Ameline B, Redor Y, Bey Boumerzag A, Haut J.

Author information: 
(1)Centre Hospitalier National d'Ophtalmologie des Quinze-Vingts, Paris.

To appreciate the current place of argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) in the
therapeutic armamentarium of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), the first 211
photocoagulated phakic eyes were analysed. One hundred and fifty-nine eyes had a 
5 year-follow-up and 147 eyes had a minimal 8 year-follow-up. These eyes came
from an initial group of 151 patients: 76 women and 75 men with a mean age of 66 
years. We decided, arbitrarily, to assess trabeculoplasty results according to
three combined criteria of failure (insufficient or transient intraocular
pressure drop (3 mmHg), progression in visual field loss and need for a
filtrating surgery) and to various expected goals: prevent an increase of drugs
with their subsequent side effects, taper a non tolerated medical treatment and, 
lastly, try to cease all medical treatment in non compliant patients. According
to these criteria, during the first five years, the cumulative failure rate in
the 159 eyes rose steadily from 19% (31 eyes) in the first year to 52% (82 eyes) 
in the fifth year. The initial mean intraocular pressure (27.22 mmHg) of 7
failures operated on during the first 2 months and that of all 27 operated on
failures (24.41 mmHg) was higher than the initial mean intraocular pressure of
the 77 successful cases (22.67 mmHg). In the 77 eyes still controlled at 5 years,
the intraocular pressure drop was 6.57 mmHg.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 1294609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Ophthalmology. 1991 Jul;98(7):1061-5.

Long-term efficacy of repeat argon laser trabeculoplasty.

Feldman RM(1), Katz LJ, Spaeth GL, Crapotta JA, Fahmy IA, Ali MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Diego.

The role of repeat argon laser trabeculoplasty (RALT) in the management of
open-angle glaucoma is controversial. To determine the long-term efficacy of
RALT, the authors reviewed case records of 44 patients (50 eyes) who received
RALT for uncontrolled glaucoma at the Wills Eye Hospital before 1986. Success was
defined as a 3 mmHg or greater decrease in intraocular pressure (IOP) to less
than 22 mmHg, and no further surgical intervention. By life table analysis, RALT 
was successful in 35% of eyes at 6 months, in 21% at 12 months, in 11% at 24
months, and in 5% at 48 months. Thirty-three percent of eyes in which primary ALT
was successful for 1 year were successful 12 months after RALT. Complications
included IOP spikes in 12%. In conclusion, RALT was generally not effective for
long-term control of open-angle glaucoma, but may be useful as a temporizing
measure. However, this use of RALT must be weighed against the risks of
complications and the additional progression of disease before more definitive
surgical intervention.


PMID: 1891214  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1991 Apr;198(4):277-83.

[Glaucoma screening--justified or not justified?].

[Article in German]

Sternbuch J(1), Gutzwiller F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Sozial- und Präventivmedizin, Universität Zürich.

Erratum in
    Klin Monatsbl Augenheilkd 1992 Apr;200(4):327.

In explaining the damages of primary open-angle glaucoma, the elevated eye
pressure was assumed to be the central causative factor. But epidemiological
research found high proportions of the following clinical entities: only elevated
pressure without further damages (called ocular hypertension), and only
glaucomatous damages without high pressure (called normal- or low-pressure
glaucoma). These facts made the pressure-theory doubtful, and therefore it had to
be modified. Some authors, though, doubt the general validity of the
pressure-theory, and postulate other models for the etiology of glaucomatous
damages. According to current knowledge, for the diagnosis and screening of
primary open angle glaucoma, emphasis should be put rather on the visual fields
and the appearance of the optic disc, while pressure measurements supply further 
clues.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1045965 
PMID: 1861406  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Optom Clin. 1991;1(1):205-28.

Surgical management of glaucoma.

Fingeret M, Gladstein G.

Surgery plays an important role in the treatment of glaucoma. For the
angle-closure glaucomas, surgery is the primary mode of treatment to restore the 
normal route of aqueous out of the eye. For the open-angle glaucomas, surgery is 
usually a secondary treatment modality, indicated after medical therapy fails to 
halt glaucomatous damage or does not reduce the intraocular pressure to an
acceptable level for an individual's eye.


PMID: 1799819  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Optom Clin. 1991;1(1):19-102.

Diagnosis and management of primary open-angle glaucoma.

Alexander LJ.

Primary open-angle glaucoma offers a significant diagnostic and management
challenge for primary care providers. Uncertainty clouds the definition of the
disease, its prevalence, the sensitivity and accuracy of the clinical tests used 
for its diagnosis, the efficacy of antiglaucoma medications, the compliance of
patients with these drug regimens, the appropriate use of follow-up examinations,
and the use of surgical techniques in lieu of medical management. This discussion
addresses these many vexing issues for the purpose of assisting primary care
providers to better diagnose and manage glaucoma patients.


PMID: 1799817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Optom Clin. 1991;1(1):1-17.

A new look at an old disease.

Lewis TL.

Despite 200 years of effort, much about glaucoma remains a mystery, and numerous 
critical questions remain unanswered. Are there subgroups of primary open-angle
glaucoma, with different etiologies, risk factors, clinical presentations, and
prognoses? What criteria should be adopted for important diagnostic tests, such
as automated perimetry, to reduce the likelihood of variability? Is medical
management of the disease truly efficacious? Should laser trabeculoplasty become 
the initial surgery of choice? Current answers to these and other important
questions are reviewed in this survey of the many new research efforts exploring 
this old disease.


PMID: 1799815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1990 Apr;1(2):109-16.

Diagnosis and follow-up of primary open-angle glaucoma.

Morrison JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Oregon Health Sciences University and the Devers Eye Institute, Portland.


PMID: 10149671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Br J Ophthalmol. 1990 Feb;74(2):103-5.

Cyclocryotherapy: a review of cases over a 10-year period.

Benson MT(1), Nelson ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield.

There are conflicting reports on the value of cyclocryotherapy in the management 
of glaucoma. This retrospective study was carried out to assess the efficacy and 
complication rate of this procedure. The case notes of all patients undergoing
cyclocryotherapy at a single centre over a 10-year period were reviewed. Case
records were available for 68 eyes of 64 people. Thirty-eight eyes had
neovascular glaucoma, nine had aphakic glaucoma, nine had angle closure glaucoma,
three had primary open angle glaucoma, and nine had secondary open angle
glaucoma. The mean follow-up periods for these groups varied from 2.0-6.3 years. 
The mean reduction in intraocular pressure following treatment varied from 7.9 mm
Hg in the secondary open angle glaucoma group to 24.3 mm Hg in those with angle
closure glaucoma. Pressure was controlled in 29.4% overall, ranging from 66.7% in
the angle closure and primary open angle groups to 0% in the secondary open angle
group. Of the painful eyes 71% were rendered comfortable, indicating that pain
relief from cyclocryotherapy is not due solely to pressure control. 30% of the
patients lost their vision following the procedure, phthisis occurred in 11.8%
and four eyes (5.9%) went on to enucleation. Our results indicate that
cyclocryotherapy affords good pain relief, without good pressure control, in
various types of glaucoma. While there is an apparent high complication rate,
visual loss and phthisis cannot be ascribed directly to the procedure, since
these are eyes with a poor prognosis.


PMCID: PMC1042001
PMID: 2310722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1990;87 Suppl:S175-86.

[Surgical therapy of glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Grehn F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Mainz, Bundesrepublik Deutschland.

During recent years, glaucoma surgery has been modified by the introduction of
new antiglaucoma drugs and by laser therapy. Various glaucoma operations have,
however, retained their value in the treatment of severe glaucoma cases. Acute
angle-closure glaucoma is best treated by iridectomy. When a clear cornea is
present, laser iridectomy can be performed. Prophylactic treatment of the
contralateral eye is mandatory. In chronic open-angle glaucoma, filtration
surgery with a scleral flap is usually performed (goniotrephination or
trabeculectomy). Modifications in the conjunctival incision and the use of
antifibroblastic drugs may reduce the failure rate for difficult cases in the
future. Individual adjustment of postoperative treatment is of great importance
for the development of functioning filtering blebs. Reoperations retain their
high incidence of subconjunctival scarring. In congenital glaucoma, the success
rate of trabeculotomy equals the success rate of goniotomy. Trabeculotomy has
advantages when the cornea is cloudy, but may be more difficult to perform in
eyes with a stretched anterior segment or in secondary congenital glaucomas. In
neovascular glaucoma, cryotherapy of the peripheral retina often normalizes the
intraocular pressure by reduction of neovascularization. Cyclocryotherapy of the 
anterior pars plicata often results in cataract and phthisis bulbi and is only
rarely used. In non-neovascular secondary glaucoma or numerous reoperations for
primary glaucoma, the implantation of a Molteno or Schocket implant may be
helpful. Cyclodialysis is seldom used because its outcome is extremely variable. 
It is mostly replaced by modified filtering surgery, including ciliary tendon
disinsertion (Watson trabeculectomy). If the IOP is high in coexisting glaucoma
and cataract, two separate procedures are normally performed successively: when
the filtering surgery has been successfully performed and settled, a separate
extracapsular cataract operation is performed via a clear corneal incision.
Simultaneous procedures, if necessary, can be performed with a trabeculotomy or
with a filtering operation. If the IOP is borderline, an extracapsular cataract
operation is normally sufficient to lower the IOP for some mmHg. Cataract
formation after filtering surgery has become a less severe complication, as
posterior chamber lens implantation is also possible in glaucomatous eyes.
Therefore, filtering surgery nowadays seems indicated at earlier stages of
glaucoma.


PMID: 2083900  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1990;87 Suppl:S163-71.

[Follow-up in glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Gloor B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, Universitätsspital, Zürich.

The follow-up and management of glaucoma are based on the measurement of IOP, on 
psychophysical examination, and morphological evaluation of the papilla, the
nerve fiber layer, and the chamber angle. Applanation tonometry is still the
method of choice for IOP measurement. Disinfection with 70% alcohol protects
against AIDS. Air-puff applanation tonometry is not exact enough. Although
certain authors would like to define primary open-angle glaucoma solely on the
changes of the papilla and visual field, we still cannot do without pressure as
an indicator for the presence of glaucoma and the quality of therapy follow-up.
Additional psychophysical examinations such as color perception, contrast
sensitivity, flicker perimetry, and pattern ERG are not yet perfected for the
practice and do not replace computerized threshold perimetry. The later has taken
a giant step forward with the new evaluation program. However, in spite of these 
advancements in perimetry, morphology of the papilla and of the nerve fiber layer
has assumed such a central role that it must be included in routine glaucoma
follow-up. At present, standardized "hand planimetry" is still superior to
scanners and laser ophthalmoscopes.


PMID: 2083898  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1989 Aug;17(3):217-24.

The place of trabeculectomy in the management of primary open-angle glaucoma and 
factors favouring success.

Thomas R(1), Billson F.

Author information: 
(1)Christian Medical College, Vellore, India.

Medical treatment has always been the mainstay in the management of primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Surgical intervention has been reserved for cases
with intraocular pressures uncontrolled on medical therapy and/or progression of 
visual field loss. Following the introduction of trabeculectomy, there was a move
toward earlier surgery in POAG with some advocating it as a primary procedure.
However, others have emphasised the complications and unpredictability of
trabeculectomy and use it only as a last resort. In this article the literature
is reviewed and the factors that prevent complications and help ensure a
successful result in trabeculectomy are considered. While the role of
trabeculectomy as a primary procedure in POAG is debatable, the authors favour
earlier surgical intervention rather than using surgery as a last resort.


PMID: 2679810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Ophthalmology. 1989 Mar;96(3):316-20.

Visual field change in low-tension glaucoma over a five-year follow-up.

Gliklich RE(1), Steinmann WC, Spaeth GL.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Cambridge.

There is some evidence that the nature and progression of disease in low-tension 
glaucoma may be distinct from other open-angle glaucomas. The authors assessed
visual field change by retrospective case review of all patients treated for
low-tension glaucoma by the Glaucoma Service, Wills Eye Hospital, for at least 5 
years. Sixty-two glaucomatous eyes of 36 patients were identified. All eyes were 
treated medically and 40 (65%) underwent at least one surgical procedure.
Twenty-eight eyes (47%) had initial field loss confined to a single hemi-field
and in the remainder both hemi-fields were involved. Thirty of 57 eyes (53%)
showed progression at 3 years and 38 (62%) of 57 had progressed by 5 years. A
dense scotoma extending from the nasal periphery toward fixation was the most
common visual field defect. The rate of field change in this population is
significantly greater than in a cohort of primary open-angle glaucoma patients
also seen at Wills Eye Hospital, but who had elevated intraocular pressures.
Patterns of field loss and rate of progression in this low-tension glaucoma
population suggest that the natural history of low-tension glaucoma differs from 
high-tension open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 2710522  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Prim Care. 1989 Mar;16(1):197-209.

Open-angle glaucoma.

Margolis KL(1), Rich EC.

Author information: 
(1)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

Open-angle glaucoma is a common cause of blindness and visual impairment, and is 
characterized by elevated intraocular pressure, optic nerve degeneration and
visual field loss. Risk factors include increasing age, black race, positive
family history and diabetes. Since many high risk individuals are seen
periodically by primary care physicians, the office or clinic is a logical site
for screening for open angle glaucoma. Tonometry is a useful screening maneuver, 
but is little used in the primary care setting. If primary care physicians can
acquire the necessary skills, ophthalmoscopy may be a simple, safe and
inexpensive alternative to tonometry.


PMID: 2649902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1989 Mar;194(3):173-7.

[Cofactorial glaucoma--causes].

[Article in German]

Scullica L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Messina/Italien.

The various types of glaucoma may be classified more accurately by studying the
structure and physiology of the trabecular meshwork. Seen in this light, the
development of glaucoma is linked to "extrinsic" and "intrinsic" factors. The
intrinsic factors represent the predisposition to glaucoma; the secondary factors
intervene in a secondary phase, creating a resistance to aqueous humor outflow.
In so-called primary glaucoma the predisposition plays a decisive role, while the
extrinsic factors are not so important. In cofactorial glaucoma the
predisposition is only of slight significance, while the extrinsic factors are
extremely important. In true secondary glaucoma predisposition plays a minimal
role, while the extrinsic factors are all the more important. In correlated
glaucomas the predisposition may be extremely relevant, but the extrinsic factors
which represent the key causes are still unknown. Several types of glaucoma are
described as examples.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1046357 
PMID: 2498569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


767. J Fr Ophtalmol. 1989;12(8-9):527-34.

[Treatment of chronic primary open-angle glaucoma. Long-term functional results].

[Article in French]

Demailly P(1), Gruber D, Kretz G.

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, Hôpital Saint-Joseph, Paris.

The functional results of the treatment of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG)
were analysed. A retrospective study was undertaken on 437 eyes from 282 patients
(137 women, 145 men) followed in Saint Joseph's Hospital (Paris). The mean
follow-up was 9.7 years (4-22 years). 265 eyes received only medical treatment,
83 eyes argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) and 89 eyes surgery (66
trabeculectomies - 23 cataract-glaucoma combined operations). At least twice a
year, intraocular pressure (IOP), visual acuity (VA) and mean total visual
capability (TVC) on the Friedmann analyser were recorded on a computer. The
severity gradient (SG) was calculated from the evolution gradient of TVC versus
IOP with time for each group (medical, ALT, surgery) before and after treatment. 
Medical SG was not significantly different from ALT SG or surgery SG
(trabeculectomy or combined surgery). For each group, SG before treatment was not
significantly different from SG after treatment. For tonometric failures after
ALT or surgery, SG before treatment was not different from SG after treatment.
Nevertheless, after trabeculectomy, in the cases of clear tonometric success (IOP
less than or equal to 16 mmHg), SG was significantly improved (p less than
0.001). On the other hand, no positive influence was noted on visual field
evolution in cases of a commonly admitted good tonometric control (IOP less than 
or equal to 21 mmHg). Visual acuity loss after trabeculectomy was greatest during
the first year (6/20). The cataractogenic role of trabeculectomy was
statistically confirmed. The incidence of cataract at 5 years was 46%. This
cataractogenic effect occurred significantly more after 55 years. We discuss
tonometric effect on TVC evolution.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 2699612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Natl Med Assoc. 1988 Jul;80(7):721-3.

A review of surgical alternatives to medical therapy for glaucoma.

Gaasterland DE.

Results of four uncontrolled studies, with short-term follow-up, of argon laser
trabeculoplasty (ALT) as initial treatment for various open-angle glaucomas
indicate short-term success varies from 65 to 90 percent. The success rates are
less impressive when the definition of success, usually intraocular pressure 22
mmHg or less, and the short follow-up, usually limited to months, are considered.
The ongoing, multicenter, random-assignment, controlled Glaucoma Laser Trial in
the United States will provide additional information about short- and long-term 
follow-up of primary ALT that will clarify the accuracy of the results of these
preliminary trials.Results of another study suggest that initial filtering
surgery is as effective at controlling intraocular pressure and preserving visual
function as medical treatment for newly diagnosed glaucoma. All these clinical
studies are difficult to interpret and suffer from the lack of data analysis
using the life-table method. The comparatively low rate of long-term success of
ALT for open-angle glaucoma performed after failure of medical management,
particularly in blacks, cautions that ALT may not be a good substitute for
medications or filtering surgery in newly diagnosed glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC2625799
PMID: 3404551  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Doc Ophthalmol. 1987 Sep-Oct;67(1-2):151-70.

Glaucoma filtering surgery, a retrospective study of 300 operations.

Veldman E(1), Greve EL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Academisch Medisch Centrum, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.

The results of 300 consecutive glaucoma filtering procedures, which were
performed in our clinic between January 1982 and September 1985, are described.
The overall combined success rate (complete + qualified) was 66.5% (Heuer's
classification). This is in good agreement with other glaucoma referral centers. 
The peak of the age distribution curve at the time of operation was between 70
and 75 years. Nevertheless, 30% of operations was performed on patients under 50 
years of age. Relatively poor success rates were obtained in operations following
prior unsuccessful filtering surgery (50.5%) or other surgery (47%), in patients 
under 50 years of age (61%) and in some types of secondary glaucoma. In
aphakia/pseudophakia the success rate was 33%. The posterior capsule was intact
only 13% of this category at the time of surgery, in 56% previously unsuccessful 
filtering surgery had been performed, and the age at operation was relatively
young (53 yr). These factors have an unfavorable influence on the results of
filtering surgery. The success rate in phakic primary open angle glaucoma was 85%
and in phakic primary angle closure glaucoma 73%. The combination with a cataract
extraction (in 28%) and a peripheral iridectomy, if this had not been performed
previously, (in 31%) may have contributed to the relatively favorable surgical
results in phakic primary angle closure glaucoma. Relatively high intraocular
pressures were found in the early postoperative period; the peak of the
pressure-curve was between 20 and 25 mm Hg, 10 mm Hg higher than at the end of
follow-up. Postoperative progression of glaucomatous visual field defects was
noted in 7%. The most disturbing complication was flat anterior chamber, causing 
or enhancing cataract formation (in 4 out of 8 phakic patients) and corneal
dystrophy (in 2 out of 12 patients). A review of literature is given concerning
methods of improving filtration, when the surgical prognosis is poor.


PMID: 3428095  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Am Optom Assoc. 1987 Sep;58(9):747-69.

Ocular hypertension or early undetected glaucoma?

Eskridge JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Optometry/Medical Center, University of Alabama, Birmingham 35294.

This paper reviews the diagnostic process and the utilization of specific testing
procedures - including patient history, anterior chamber evaluation, intraocular 
pressure measurement, optic disc evaluation, nerve fiber layer evaluation, visual
field evaluation, and psychophysical and electrophysiological testing - for the
clinical differentiation of ocular hypertension and primary open-angle glaucoma.


PMID: 3328751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Clin Pharm. 1987 Jun;6(6):451-63.

Comparison of ophthalmic beta-blocking agents.

Lesar TS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Albany Medical Center Hospital, Department of Pharmaceutical Services, NY
12208.

Glaucoma is described, and the chemistry, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics,
clinical efficacy, adverse effects, and dosage and administration of betaxolol
and levobunolol in comparison with timolol are reviewed. Betaxolol and
levobunolol are two beta-adrenergic blocking agents being marketed as ophthalmic 
solutions for treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and ocular
hypertension (OHT). Betaxolol is a relatively cardioselective beta-adrenergic
blocker, while levobunolol is a nonselective beta-adrenergic blocking agent.
Double-blind comparative trials have suggested that betaxolol has an equal to
slightly lower efficacy and levobunolol has equal efficacy in reducing
intraocular pressure (IOP) compared with timolol, the first ophthalmic beta
blocker. A mean reduction in intraocular pressure of 15-35% occurs with both
betaxolol and levobunolol and is reported to be maintained with prolonged use.
Betaxolol is associated with a higher (25%) incidence of local ocular adverse
reactions than timolol. However, betaxolol produces less systemic beta 2- and
possibly beta 1-adrenergic receptor blockade than either timolol or levobunolol. 
Betaxolol may be relatively safer to use in patients with reactive airway disease
than either timolol or levobunolol. Levobunolol causes a similar to greater
incidence of local ocular adverse reactions and similar systemic beta blockade
compared with timolol. Levobunolol may possibly be longer acting than timolol,
allowing more patients to be controlled by once-daily dosing. Betaxolol and
levobunolol appear to be similar to timolol in controlling IOP in patients with
POAG and OHT; additional experience with these agents is needed to assess the
advantages and disadvantages of each agent.


PMID: 2891463  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Ocul Pharmacol. 1987 Spring;3(1):77-100.

Light-induced avian glaucoma as an animal model for human primary glaucoma.

Lauber JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

Glaucoma can be induced in domestic chicks at the will of the investigator, by
the simple device of rearing the chicks under continuous light. This
light-induced avian glaucoma (LIAG) is presented as an animal model system for
human open-angle glaucoma. A number of morphological and physiological findings
in LIAG are reviewed, and the LIAG system is compared with several other glaucoma
model systems, in dogs, rabbits and monkeys. Intraocular pressure in LIAG has
been demonstrated to be responsive to several anti-glaucoma drugs, and the system
could be used for further drug testing. Thus it is suggested that LIAG may be
especially useful in studies seeking to understand human glaucoma, and how to
forestall it, or treat it. As well, a prolonged "pre-glaucoma" period is
available to the investigator working with LIAG, during which a pathological
course is already underway in the eye, but intraocular pressure has not yet gone 
up.


PMID: 3332676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


773. J Fam Pract. 1986 Jul;23(1):29-39.

A critical review of adult health maintenance: Part 4. Prevention of metabolic,
behavioral, and miscellaneous conditions.

Frame PS.

Erratum in
    J Fam Pract 1986 Dec;23(6):537.

This is the last article in a four-part series that presents an updated protocol 
for selective longitudinal health maintenance of asymptomatic adults. Nine
metabolic, behavioral, and miscellaneous conditions are reviewed with reference
to six generally accepted screening criteria. A recommendation is made for each
condition and is compared, when appropriate, with the recommendations of the
Canadian Task Force on the Periodic Health Examination. The recommendations for
all 30 conditions reviewed in this four-part series are combined into a practical
health maintenance flow sheet for use by primary care physicians.


PMID: 3522799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Am J Optom Physiol Opt. 1985 Dec;62(12):913-23.

Glaucoma enigma.

Cockburn DM.

This paper addresses the complex questions of the definition of primary
open-angle glaucoma, its pathological changes, the sites at which these changes
could operate, and the temporal order in which they might occur. A vascular model
is proposed that could satisfy the several clinical forms of presentation of
open-angle glaucoma. Questions are raised concerning areas deserving of research 
that will help solve the existing enigma of glaucoma.


PMID: 2417485  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Tijdschr Diergeneeskd. 1985 Mar 15;110(6):219-27.

[Glaucoma in dogs and cats. Review and retrospective evaluation of 421 patients. 
I. Pathobiological background, classification and breed predisposition].

[Article in Dutch]

Boevé MH, Stades FC.

Glaucoma is diagnosed frequently in dogs and cats. A review of case records at
the University of Utrecht Small Animal Clinic revealed that during a 4-year
period glaucoma accounted for 8.6% of all ophthalmological diagnoses. Glaucoma is
defined as an increased intraocular pressure, which sooner or later leads to loss
of function of the eye. Primary and secondary types can be distinguished. In
primary glaucoma an increased intraocular pressure exists in the absence of other
primary eye disorders. By gonioscopy a discrimination can be made between open
and narrow or closed anterior chamber angle forms of primary glaucoma. This
requires a clear distinction between the definitions of chamber angle and
filtration angle. In the Netherlands primary glaucoma is seen especially in the
American Cocker Spaniel, Bouvier and Basset breeds. In secondary glaucoma an
increased intraocular pressure occurs as a consequence of another primary eye
disorder. Dislocation of the lens is the main cause for secondary glaucoma.
Several-mainly small-terrier breeds are predisposed to this entity.


PMID: 3873120  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


776. J Fr Ophtalmol. 1985;8(8-9):535-9.

[Value of beta-blockers in the treatment of idiopathic intracranial hypertension 
(physiopathogenetic basis)].

[Article in French]

Salvanet-Bouccara A, Mandelbaum-Stupp C.

We report three clinical cases of idiopathic intracranial hypertension with
favorable evolution. The treatment of this poorly-understood affection is still
only symptomatic. Through the literature, we review the different
physiopathological hypotheses proposed, among which the faultly resorption of C S
F predominates. By analogy with the physiopathogenesis of primary open-angle
glaucoma, we have treated these patients with beta-blocking agents.


PMID: 4086729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Ophthalmologica. 1985;191(2):75-83.

Trabeculoperforation? Trabeculoretraction? Trabeculoplasty? Review of the various
designations used for laser treatment in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Moulin F, Haut J, Abboud E.

A historical recall and an attempt to simplify the numerous terms used to
designate laser treatments for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) are presented. 
There are two main types of laser treatment for POAG involving two entirely
different procedures. The first one, contemporary with the beginning of laser
photocoagulation, imitates the action of the scalpel, namely goniotomy ab interno
or trabeculotomy ab externo. The goal of this early procedure was to produce a
through and through trabecular hole but instead of the cutting edge of the knife,
it uses the explosive effect of the laser. This procedure has been given numerous
names. Among the most frequent ones, we find: 'laser trabeculopuncture',
'laseropuncture', 'goniopuncture', 'laser trabeculectomy', 'laser trabeculotomy',
'laser trabeculopexy'. We prefer to gather them under an explicit generic term:
'laser trabeculoperforation'. The results of this procedure have been very
disappointing until now, particularly with conventional lasers, e.g.
continuous-wave argon laser, owing to the predominance of their thermal effect
over their explosive effect and also to the great scarring property of the
trabecular meshwork. In the second type of glaucoma laser treatment, instead of
trying to make a patent hole in the trabecular meshwork, the surgeon seeks to
reshape the inner trabecular surface by means of argon laser microscars in order 
to produce a reversal of the trabecular collapse, which is now considered to be
one of the major etiologies of POAG.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 4058861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Oftalmol Zh. 1982;37(8):457-9.

[Complex morphological study of choroidal microcirculation in the dynamics of
primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Panormova NV.


PMID: 6761615  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Aust J Ophthalmol. 1981 Aug;9(3):223-9.

Optic disc and visual field changes in primary open angle glaucoma.

Goldberg I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Prince of Wales Hospital & University of New
South Wales, Randwick.

Rapid and accurate detection of glaucomatous damage at its onset or on its
progression is desirable for optimum patient management. Tonometry alone is
insufficient in ensuring adequacy of therapy; also required are stereoscopic
optic disc review and quantitative perimetry. Signs of early optic nerve head
damage from primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) include nerve fibre layer
haemorrhage, a generalised increase in optic cup size and a localised increase in
optic cup size. The latter two are absolute indications for initiation or
acceleration of ocular hypotensive therapy. Accurate perimetric plotting of the
normal blind spot, careful examination for a nasal step, and a thorough search of
the paracentral area of the visual field are recommended for detection of the
earliest visual field changes in POAG. Paracentral scotomata, nasal steps and
repeated asymmetric concentric contraction of the isopters are three early,
specific signs of nerve fibre bundle damage.


PMID: 6765835  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Int Ophthalmol Clin. 1981 Spring;21(1):47-68.

Trabeculectomy.

Shin DH.

In a critical review of trabeculectomy, some factors and steps that I consider
important for its successful outcome are discussed. Trabeculectomy is a misnomer,
because the success of this procedure does not depend on inclusion of trabecular 
meshwork or Schlemm's canal in the excised tissue. Furthermore, development of a 
conjunctival bleb is seen in most, if not all, eyes with successful
trabeculectomy. Trabeculectomy is, then, a form of guarded filtering procedure.
Several factors seem to determine the outcome of the final intraocular pressure
control after trabeculectomy. In this study, intracameral air injection and
gauging of the closure of the lamellar scleral flap according to an air test
during trabeculectomy proved very useful in attaining optimal closure of the
lamellar scleral flap. It was effective in preventing undesirable postoperative
complications as well as in achieving a satisfactory success rate.
Trabeculectomy, as reported by others, seems to be a remarkably successful and
safe procedure. However, the results in aphakic glaucoma are disappointing. From 
all indications at the present time, trabeculectomy will stay with us as a
primary procedure for open-angle and chronic angle-closure glaucomas in adult
phakic eyes, although we do not yet know how many of the eyes with seemingly
successful trabeculectomies will remain healthy in the future.


PMID: 7216647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Surv Ophthalmol. 1980 May-Jun;24(6):621-64.

Low tension glaucoma: a critical review and new material.

Levene RZ.

Low tension glaucoma (LTG) is a condition consisting of typical gluacomatous disc
and field changes, an open angle and pressures within the statisticaly normal
range. The controversy surrounding low tension glaucoma pertains not only to the 
definition and characteristics of the entity itself, but to the fundamental
questions it raises regarding the causal relationship between intraocular
pressure and disc and field changes. This review of LTG is based on material from
three major sources: Sjögren's review from 1857 to 1946; the author's review of
the world literature from 1947 through 1979; and an analysis of 32 of the
author's cases. 767 cases from clinic and private practice and 241 cases from
defined populations are considered. Definitions, incidence, characteristics,
differential diagnosis and management of LTG are discussed, as are its
relationship to primary open angle glaucoma and its possible association with
various other entities. Pathogenesis and possible mechanisms are also explored.


PMID: 7414505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Int Ophthalmol Clin. 1979 Spring;19(1):95-125.

Visual field changes in primary open-angle glaucoma.

Chan AK.


PMID: 376475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Surv Ophthalmol. 1977 Nov-Dec;22(3):153-76.

Hormonal regulation of intraocular pressure.

Kass MA, Sears ML.

A detailed review of the hormonal effects on intraocular pressure is presented.
There is evidence that corticotropin, vasopressin, thyroxin, insulin,
glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids may play a role in the physiologic
regulation of intraocular pressure. Growth hormone, melanocyte stimulating
hormone, progesterone, estrogen, chorionic gonadotropin and relaxin may influence
intraocular pressure when administered in pharmacologic doses. Whether the key to
understanding primary open-angle glaucoma lies in recognizing abnormal endocrine 
mechanisms, especially involving glucocorticoids, remains unclear at the present 
time.


PMID: 413203  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Calif Med. 1954 Sep;81(3):231-4.

Diagnosis and treatment of glaucoma; a review of recent developments.

McBAIN EH.

Tonography is helpful in the diagnosis of doubtful cases of chronic simple
glaucoma. If also gives a good indication of the status of the disease in a given
eye. The most useful miotic in the treatment of glaucoma is still pilocarpine.
Carbachol is more potent but must be used in an anhydrous base ointment or in a
solution of a wetting agent. DFP (diisopropyl fluorophosphate) produces
undesirable side effects because of the hyperreactivity of the ciliary body and
iris sphincter which it causes. These can be partly overcome by using pilocarpine
first. Diamox is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that is effective when given
orally. In many cases it produces at least a temporary lowering of tension in
glaucomatous eyes, apparently by reducing the secretion of intraocular fluid. Its
ultimate value in glaucoma remains to be seen. The cyclodiathermy operation which
has been modified somewhat by Weekers has had a recent increase in use but the
long-term results have been somewhat disappointing. The importance of early
operation in narrow angle glaucoma is becoming more and more apparent. Following 
iridectomy the wound should be tightly sutured to insure the prompt reformation
of the anterior chamber.


PMCID: PMC1532120
PMID: 13190437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

