
1. Int Ophthalmol. 2017 Jan 7. doi: 10.1007/s10792-016-0412-3. [Epub ahead of print]

Pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management of glaucoma associated with
Sturge-Weber syndrome.

Javaid U(1), Ali MH(2), Jamal S(1), Butt NH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Allama Iqbal Medical College/Jinnah Hospital,
Lahore, Pakistan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Allama Iqbal Medical
College/Jinnah Hospital, Lahore, Pakistan. mhassaanali@hotmail.com.

PURPOSE: Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS), also known as encephalotrigeminal
angiomatosis, is a condition which includes leptomeningeal hemangioma, facial
angiomatosis or nevus flammeus, and ocular changes. SWS can lead to severe
complications of anterior segment involving conjunctiva and eyelids, whereas
posterior segment of the eye may also be affected by diffuse choroidal
hemorrhages. This article was written with the objectives to determine the
pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of glaucoma associated with this rare
and challenging disorder.
METHODS: A detailed literature search was conducted on PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane
Library, and Google Scholar using the key words. Forty-five articles matched our 
inclusion criteria that were included in this systematic review.
RESULTS: Glaucoma is the one of the commonest ocular manifestations of SWS. It is
caused by anterior chamber malformations, increased pressure in the episcleral
veins, and changes in ocular hemodynamics. Glaucoma associated with SWS is
usually congenital but can develop adults as well. The treatment of glaucoma
associated with SWS is quite challenging because of early-onset, severe visual
field impairment at the time of diagnosis, and unresponsiveness to standard
medical treatment. Several surgical procedures have been devised but the
long-term control of the intraocular pressure and visual function remain
unsatisfactory. Modifications in the filtration surgery techniques and use of
newer anti-fibrotic agents have produced good control of intraocular pressure.
CONCLUSION: Management of glaucoma associated with SWS is multi-dimensional and
needs both medical and surgical interventions for better control. The treatment
should be devised on case to case basis depending upon the intraocular pressure, 
stage of the disease, and type of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-016-0412-3 
PMID: 28064423  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


2. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2017 Jan 4. pii: S1350-9462(16)30076-3. doi:
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2017.01.002. [Epub ahead of print]

BAX to basics: How the BCL2 gene family controls the death of retinal ganglion
cells.

Maes ME(1), Schlamp CL(1), Nickells RW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. Electronic address: 
nickells@wisc.edu.

Retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death is the principal consequence of injury to the
optic nerve. For several decades, we have understood that the RGC death process
was executed by apoptosis, suggesting that there may be ways to therapeutically
intervene in this cell death program and provide a more direct treatment to the
cells and tissues affected in diseases like glaucoma. A major part of this
endeavor has been to elucidate the molecular biological pathways active in RGCs
from the point of axonal injury to the point of irreversible cell death. A major 
component of this process is the complex interaction of members of the BCL2 gene 
family. Three distinct family members of proteins orchestrate the most critical
junction in the apoptotic program of RGCs, culminating in the activation of
pro-apoptotic BAX. Once active, BAX causes irreparable damage to mitochondria,
while precipitating downstream events that finish off a dying ganglion cell. This
review is divided into two major parts. First, we summarize the extent of
knowledge of how BCL2 gene family proteins interact to facilitate the activation 
and function of BAX. This area of investigation has rapidly changed over the last
few years and has yielded a dramatically different mechanistic understanding of
how the intrinsic apoptotic program is run in mammalian cells. Second, we
provided a comprehensive analysis of nearly two decades of investigation of the
role of BAX in the process of RGC death, much of which has provided many
important insights into the overall pathophysiology of diseases like glaucoma.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2017.01.002 
PMID: 28064040  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


3. J Control Release. 2017 Jan 4. pii: S0168-3659(16)30753-2. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2016.12.038. [Epub ahead of print]

An intraocular drug delivery system using targeted nanocarriers attenuates
retinal ganglion cell degeneration.

Zhao L(1), Chen G(2), Li J(3), Fu Y(4), Mavlyutov TA(1), Yao A(1), Nickells
RW(5), Gong S(6), Guo LW(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, 5151 Wisconsin Institute for Medical Research,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1111 Highland Ave, Madison, WI 53705, USA.
(2)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Wisconsin Institutes for
Discovery, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53715, USA. (3)Department
of Surgery, 5151 Wisconsin Institute for Medical Research, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 1111 Highland Ave, Madison, WI 53705, USA; Department of
Ophthalmology, The First Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang 110001,
China.; Department of Ophthalmology, The 3rd People's Hospital of Dalian, Dalian 
116033, China. (4)Department of Surgery, 5151 Wisconsin Institute for Medical
Research, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1111 Highland Ave, Madison, WI 53705, 
USA; Shanghai Key Laboratory of Psychotic Disorders, Shanghai Mental Health
Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 600 Wanping Nan Road,
Shanghai 200030, China. (5)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1300 University Ave, Madison, WI 53706, USA;
McPherson Eye Research Institute, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI
53705, USA. (6)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Wisconsin
Institutes for Discovery, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53715,
USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI 53715, USA; McPherson Eye Research Institute, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53705, USA. Electronic address:
shaoqingong@wisc.edu. (7)Department of Surgery, 5151 Wisconsin Institute for
Medical Research, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1111 Highland Ave, Madison, WI
53705, USA; McPherson Eye Research Institute, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI 53705, USA. Electronic address: guo@surgery.wisc.edu.

Glaucoma is a common blinding disease characterized by loss of retinal ganglion
cells (RGCs). To date, there is no clinically available treatment directly
targeting RGCs. We aim to develop an RGC-targeted intraocular drug delivery
system using unimolecular micelle nanoparticles (unimNPs) to prevent RGC loss.
The unimNPs were formed by single/individual multi-arm star amphiphilic block
copolymer poly(amidoamine)-polyvalerolactone-poly(ethylene glycol)
(PAMAM-PVL-PEG). While the hydrophobic PAMAM-PVL core can encapsulate hydrophobic
drugs, the hydrophilic PEG shell provides excellent water dispersity. We
conjugated unimNPs with the cholera toxin B domain (CTB) for RGC-targeting and
with Cy5.5 for unimNP-tracing. To exploit RGC-protective sigma-1 receptor (S1R), 
we loaded unimNPs with an endogenous S1R agonist dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) as
an FDA-approved model drug. These unimNPs produced a steady DHEA release in vitro
for over two months at pH7.4. We then co-injected (mice, intraocular) unimNPs
with the glutamate analog N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), which is excito-toxic and 
induces RGC death. The CTB-conjugated unimNPs (i.e., targeted NPs) accumulated at
the RGC layer and effectively preserved RGCs at least for 14days, whereas the
unimNPs without CTB (i.e., non-targeted NPs) showed neither accumulation at nor
protection of NMDA-treated RGCs. Consistent with S1R functions, targeted NPs
relative to non-targeted NPs showed markedly better inhibitory effects on
apoptosis and oxidative/inflammatory stresses in the RGC layer. Hence, the
DHEA-loaded, CTB-conjugated unimNPs represent an RGC/S1R dual-targeted
nanoplatform that generates an efficacious template for further development of a 
sustainable intraocular drug delivery system to protect RGCs, which may be
applicable to treatments directed at glaucomatous pathology.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2016.12.038 
PMID: 28063892  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


4. Int Ophthalmol. 2017 Jan 6. doi: 10.1007/s10792-016-0427-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficacy and safety of adding ripasudil to existing treatment regimens for
reducing intraocular pressure.

Inoue K(1), Okayama R(2), Shiokawa M(2), Ishida K(3), Tomita G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Inouye Eye Hospital, 4-3 Kanda-Surugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 101-0062, Japan. 
inoue-k@inouye-eye.or.jp. (2)Inouye Eye Hospital, 4-3 Kanda-Surugadai,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 101-0062, Japan. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Toho
University Ohashi Medical Center, Ota-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: Ripasudil accelerates aqueous humour drainage along the trabecular
meshwork-Schlemm's canal route and has been approved for clinical use in Japan.
We retrospectively investigated the efficacy and safety of adding ripasudil to
existing treatment regimens to reduce intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with
glaucoma.
METHODS: A total of 119 eyes from 119 subjects (61 men, 58 women) with primary
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who had ripasudil added to their
treatment regimens between December 2014 and June 2015 were included. An average 
of 3.8 ± 1.0 anti-glaucoma medications was in use before adding ripasudil.
Subjects were divided into four groups based on the number of medications
included in the original treatment regimen: ≤2, 3, 4, or ≥5 medications. The IOP 
was compared before and after 1 and 3 months of treatment with ripasudil for all 
subjects and between groups. Patients for whom ripasudil use was discontinued
within 3 months were also examined.
RESULTS: The IOP was significantly lower in all patients after 1 month
(17.5 ± 4.5 mmHg) and 3 months (16.8 ± 4.2 mmHg) of treatment than it was before 
(19.8 ± 5.3 mmHg, p < 0.0001). All groups were equivalent in the rate and
magnitude of IOP change. Ripasudil administration was discontinued in five
patients (4.2%) prior to the end of the study: three were lost to follow-up and
two underwent glaucoma surgery.
CONCLUSION: Adding ripasudil to existing glaucoma treatment regimens is effective
and safe in reducing IOP, regardless of the number of medications in use.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-016-0427-9 
PMID: 28063100  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


5. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2017 Jan 6. doi: 10.1007/s00417-016-3579-4.
[Epub ahead of print]

Vitrectomy for complications of proliferative diabetic retinopathy in young
adults: clinical features and surgical outcomes.

Huang CH(1), Hsieh YT(1,)(2), Yang CM(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei,
Taiwan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, National Taiwan University College of
Medicine, No. 7, Chun-Shan S. Rd., Taipei City, 100, Taiwan. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
chungmay@ntu.edu.tw. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, National Taiwan University
College of Medicine, No. 7, Chun-Shan S. Rd., Taipei City, 100, Taiwan.
chungmay@ntu.edu.tw.

PURPOSE: To investigate the clinical manifestations and surgical results after
vitrectomy for proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) in young patients.
METHODS: Clinical features of patients between 18 to 40 years old who received
vitrectomy for PDR between January 2009 and January 2015 were retrospectively
reviewed. Those older than 40 years who received vitrectomy for PDR during the
same period were retrospectively enrolled and compared as the control group.
RESULTS: There were 68 eyes (52 patients) in the study group and 77 eyes (61
patients) in the control group. The average age at operation was
33.15 ± 4.92 years and 56.67 ± 7.52 years, respectively (p < 0.001). At
presentation, those in the study group had significantly higher proportions of
active fibrovascular proliferation and traction retinal detachment, and with
significantly higher-severity gradings than those in the control group. After
operation, the recurrent detachment rates were 13.2% in the study group and 1.3% 
in the control group (p = 0.006), and the final anatomical success rates were
91.2% in the study group and 100% in the control group (p = 0.009). The most
significant risk factor for poor visual outcome in the study group was
neovascular glaucoma (NVG) (p = 0.001). Patients with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes 
mellitus subgroups shared similar clinical features and visual outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Younger patients who received vitrectomy for PDR presented with more
severe anatomical features at the time of vitrectomy and had a higher rate of
post-operative recurrent detachment. More than 90% achieved final anatomical
success. NVG was associated with worse visual outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-016-3579-4 
PMID: 28063082  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


6. Vet Rec. 2017 Jan 6. pii: vetrec-2016-104040. doi: 10.1136/vr.104040. [Epub ahead
of print]

Effects of morphine-alfaxalone-midazolam premedication, alfaxalone induction and 
sevoflurane maintenance on intraocular pressure and tear production in dogs.

Mayordomo-Febrer A(1), Rubio M(1,)(2), Martínez-Gassent M(1), López-Murcia MM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Medicina y Cirugía Animal, Facultad de Veterinaria,
Universidad CEU Cardenal Herrera, Alfara del Patriarca, Valencia 46115, España.
(2)Garcia Cugat Foundation, CEU-UCH Chair of Medicine and Regenerative Surgery,
Facultad de Veterinaria, Universidad CEU Cardenal Herrera, Alfara del Patriarca, 
Valencia 46115, España.

Intraocular pressure (IOP) and tear production are commonly affected by general
anaesthesia. It is necessary to have a good control of both to guarantee
successful ophthalmic surgery. The purpose of this research was to evaluate if
the protocol based on the administration of morphine-alfaxalone-midazolam as
premedication, alfaxalone as induction and sevoflurane as maintenance, can induce
changes on IOP and Schirmer's tear test (STT-1) in healthy dogs. Twenty-two adult
mixed-breed dogs scheduled for an ovariohysterectomy were enrolled for the study.
IOP and STT-1 were registered at baseline (T0), 5 minutes (T1), 10 minutes (T2)
and 15 minutes (T3) after premedication with a morphine-alfaxalone-midazolam
combination; 5 minutes (T4) after induction with alfaxalone and 15 minutes (T5)
and 25 minutes (T6) after maintenance with sevoflurane. A one-way analysis of
variance was performed to analyse the difference between IOP and STT-1 over time,
respectively. The present study shows a slightly statistically significant
increase in IOP (P<0.05) after premedication, induction and maintenance that can 
be associated with this anaesthetic protocol. STT-1 showed a statistically
significant reduction during all the procedures (P<0.001). These results should
be taken into consideration, especially in dogs with damaged corneas, in those
predisposed to glaucoma and in those due to undergo intraocular surgery. Ocular
lubrication is necessary if this protocol is used.

British Veterinary Association.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.104040 
PMID: 28062846  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


7. Surv Ophthalmol. 2017 Jan 3. pii: S0039-6257(16)30152-7. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2016.12.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Radiotherapeutic and Surgical Management of Iris Melanoma: A Review.

Popovic M(1), Ahmed II(2), DiGiovanni J(3), Shields CL(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Prism Eye Institute, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada;
Department of Ophthalmology, Trillium Health Partners, Mississauga, Ontario,
Canada. (3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Odette Cancer Centre, Sunnybrook
Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (4)Ocular Oncology Service,
Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
Electronic address: carolshields@gmail.com.

We compare outcomes following radiotherapeutic and surgical management of iris
melanoma. Endpoints included local tumor recurrence, metastases, and common
complications. From an initial search that yielded 231 articles, we found 17
relevant studies with 761 eyes. The gender distribution was balanced with a mean 
age of 52 years. Most studies focused on either proton beam (49.4%) or plaque
(31.4%) radiotherapy. Rates of local recurrence (range: 0-8%) and metastatic
development (0-5%) were favorable following radiotherapy; however, common
complications included cataract (36-73%), glaucoma (3-92%) and corneal conditions
(0-33%). A unique complication of proton beam radiotherapy was limbal stem cell
deficiency (2-33%). In contrast, iridectomy and comparable procedures showed
similar rates of recurrence (0-8%) and metastases (0% in one study), lower rates 
of postoperative cataract (0-33%) and corneal conditions (2.3% in one study), and
a greater incidence of photophobia (9-25%). Following enucleation, one study of
mostly advanced eyes demonstrated a higher rate of metastases (14%). Overall,
despite a paucity of research in this setting, efficacy and safety outcomes
remain favorable. Decision-making for management should be based on tumor size,
location, angle seeding, secondary glaucoma, visual potential, and patient
preference.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2016.12.012 
PMID: 28062196  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


8. Eye (Lond). 2017 Jan 6. doi: 10.1038/eye.2016.281. [Epub ahead of print]

Targeting retinal ganglion cell recovery.

Crowston JG(1), Fahy ET(1), Fry L(1), Trounce IA(1), van Wijngaarden P(1), Petrou
S(2), Chrysostomou V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, Centre for Eye Research Australia,
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (2)Centre for Eye
Research Australia and Department of Surgery, University of Melbourne Royal
Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.

Accumulating evidence from experimental and clinical studies suggest that retinal
ganglion cells at least in the earlier stages of glaucoma have the capacity to
recover function following periods of functional loss. The capacity for recovery 
may be negatively impacted by advancing age but can be boosted by interventions
such as diet restriction and exercise.Eye advance online publication, 6 January
2017; doi:10.1038/eye.2016.281.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2016.281 
PMID: 28060359  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


9. Eye (Lond). 2017 Jan 6. doi: 10.1038/eye.2016.290. [Epub ahead of print]

The optical detection of retinal ganglion cell damage.

Morgan JE(1), Tribble J(1), Fergusson J(1), White N(1), Erchova I(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Optometry and Vision Sciences, Cardiff University, Maindy Road,
Cardiff, UK.

We provide an overview of developments in the use optical coherence tomography
(OCT) imaging for the detection of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) damage in vivo
that avoid use of any exogenous ligands to label cells. The method employs
high-resolution OCT using broad spectral light sources to deliver axial
resolution of under 5 μm. The resolution approximates that of cellular
organelles, which undergo degenerative changes that progress to apoptosis as a
result of axon damage. These degenerative changes are manifest as the loss of RGC
dendrites and fragmentation of the subcellular network of organelles, in
particular, the mitochondria that support dendritic structure. These changes can 
alter the light-scattering behavior of degenerating neurons. Using OCT imaging
techniques to identify these signals in cultured neurons, we have demonstrated
changes in cultured cells and in retinal explants. Pilot studies in human
glaucoma suggest that similar changes are detectable in the clinical setting.
High-resolution OCT can be used to detect optical scatter signals that derive
from the RGC/inner plexiform layer and are associated with neuronal damage. These
findings suggest that OCT instruments can be used to derive quantitative
measurements of RGC damage. Critically, these signals can be detected at an early
stage of RGC degeneration when cells could be protected or remodeled to support
visual recovery.Eye advance online publication, 6 January 2017;
doi:10.1038/eye.2016.290.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2016.290 
PMID: 28060357  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


10. J Glaucoma. 2017 Jan 4. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000500. [Epub ahead of print]

Impact of Combination Glaucoma Therapies on β-Blocker Exposure.

Xu K(1), Campbell EL, Gill SS, Nesdole R, Campbell RJ.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology §Division of Geriatric Medicine, Queen's
University †Department of Ophthalmology, Hotel Dieu and Kingston General
Hospitals ‡Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences-Queen's University Site
∥Division of Geriatric Medicine, St. Mary's of the Lake Hospital, Kingston,
Canada.

PURPOSE: β-adrenergic receptor antagonists (β-blockers) used in the treatment of 
glaucoma are an often-overlooked source of systemic adverse events. Ophthalmic
timolol has been associated with severe systemic adverse events including
numerous cases resulting in death. In recent years the number of fixed-dose
combination therapies for glaucoma has grown rapidly, and among available
combination therapies only the nonselective β-blocker timolol is used as the
β-blocker component.
METHODS: A population-based study was conducted in Ontario, Canada between
January 1, 2001 and December 31, 2012 to assess the shift to combination
therapies in the management of glaucoma, and to investigate the impact of this
shift on the relative use of selective and nonselective β-blockers in patients
with this disease.
RESULTS: Between 2001 and 2012 timolol (nonselective β-blocker) use grew at an
average annual rate of 2.2% (P<0.0001), whereas betaxolol (selective β-blocker)
use declined by 14.1% per year (P<0.0001). These changes in the relative use of
betaxolol and timolol coincided with changes in the relative use of combination
and single-drug therapies. Over the study period, the use of β-blockers as
single-drug therapy decreased by 7.7% annually (P<0.0001). In contrast, the use
of combination therapies containing a β-blocker increased by 7.6% annually
(P<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: The introduction of fixed combination glaucoma therapies has been
associated with a significant shift to greater use of nonselective β-blockers. In
vulnerable older populations, this may have an important impact on patient safety
that warrants further study.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000500 
PMID: 28059862  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


11. Sci Rep. 2017 Jan 6;7:39933. doi: 10.1038/srep39933.

Dysregulation of WTI (-KTS) is Associated with the Kidney-Specific Effects of the
LMX1B R246Q Mutation.

Hall G(1,)(2), Lane B(1,)(3), Chryst-Ladd M(1,)(3), Wu G(1,)(3), Lin JJ(4), Qin
X(1), Hauser ER(1), Gbadegesin R(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Duke Molecular Physiology Institute, Durham, NC, United States. (2)Division of
Nephrology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, United States.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, United
States. (4)Department of Pediatrics, Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center, Winston 
Salem, NC, United States.

Mutations in the LIM homeobox transcription factor 1-beta (LMX1B) are a cause of 
nail patellar syndrome, a condition characterized by skeletal changes, glaucoma
and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. Recently, a missense mutation (R246Q) in 
LMX1B was reported as a cause of glomerular pathologies without extra-renal
manifestations, otherwise known as nail patella-like renal disease (NPLRD). We
have identified two additional NPLRD families with the R246Q mutation, though the
mechanisms by which LMX1BR246Q causes a renal-specific phenotype is unknown. In
this study, using human podocyte cell lines overexpressing either myc-LMX1BWT or 
myc-LMX1BR246Q, we observed dominant negative and haploinsufficiency effects of
the mutation on the expression of podocyte genes such as NPHS1, GLEPP1, and WT1. 
Specifically, we observed a novel LMX1BR246Q-mediated downregulation of WT1(-KTS)
isoforms in podocytes. In conclusion, we have shown that the renal-specific
phenotype associated with the LMX1BR246Q mutation may be due to a dominant
negative effect on WT1(-KTS) isoforms that may cause a disruption of the WT1
(-KTS):(+KTS) isoform ratio and a decrease in the expression of podocyte genes.
Full delineation of the LMX1B gene regulon is needed to define its role in
maintenance of glomerular filtration barrier integrity.

DOI: 10.1038/srep39933 
PMID: 28059119  [PubMed - in process]


12. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2017 Jan 5. doi: 10.1007/s00417-016-3575-8.
[Epub ahead of print]

The biomechanical properties of the cornea of patients with glaucoma treated with
anti-glaucoma topical medications.

Chen CD(1), Chen H(1), Miao L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Affiliated Cixi Hospital of Wenzhou Medical
University, Cixi, China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, The People's Hospital of
Putuo District, No. 1291, Jiangning Road, Shanghai, 200060, China.
miaolinzzy@sohu.com.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-016-3575-8 
PMID: 28058508  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


13. Turk J Ophthalmol. 2016 Oct;46(5):237-240. doi: 10.4274/tjo.47135. Epub 2016 Oct 
17.

Isolated Microspherophakia Presenting with Angle-Closure Glaucoma.

Şimşek T(1), Beyazyıldız E(2), Şimşek E(3), Öztürk F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Osmangazi University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Ophthalmology,
Eskişehir, Turkey. (2)Gazi Mustafa Kemal Hospital, Ophthalmology Clinic, Ankara, 
Turkey. (3)Osmangazi University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pediatric
Endocrinology, Eskişehir, Turkey. (4)Yıldırım Bayazıt University Faculty of
Medicine, Department of Ophthalmology, Ankara, Turkey.

We report a case of 13-year-old girl presenting to our clinic with blurred vision
in both eyes. Ophthalmic examination revealed high myopia and angle-closure
glaucoma due to pupillary block caused by small, spherical crystalline lenses.
Treatment approaches to glaucoma in patients with microspherophakia are discussed
in this case report.

DOI: 10.4274/tjo.47135 
PMCID: PMC5200837
PMID: 28058167  [PubMed - in process]


14. Turk J Ophthalmol. 2016 Aug;46(4):169-174. doi: 10.4274/tjo.88785. Epub 2016 Aug 
15.

The Effect of Adjuvant Intracameral Triamcinolone Acetonide on the Surgical
Results of Trabeculectomy with Mitomycin C.

Alagöz N(1), Alagöz C(1), Yıldırım Y(1), Yeşilkaya C(1), Altan Ç(1), Bozkurt
E(1), Şatana B(1), Başarır B(1), Taşkapılı M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Beyoğlu Eye Training and Research Hospital, İstanbul, Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effect of adjuvant intracameral triamcinolone
acetonide (TA) on the surgical results of trabeculectomy with mitomycin C.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All consecutive trabeculectomy cases performed in the
glaucoma clinic between July 2012 and December 2013 were retrospectively reviewed
from the patient charts. Only those with follow-up of 12 months or longer were
included. Patients with intraoperative intracameral TA (study group, n=19) were
compared to those without TA (control group, n=21) in terms of surgical success, 
intraocular pressure (IOP) change, medication use and complications.
RESULTS: Forty eyes of 31 patients (21 male/10 female, mean age 64.2±13.8 years) 
were included in the study. The mean follow-up period was 20.9±5.1 months and
20.7±6.7 months in the study and control groups, respectively (p=0.830). Baseline
IOP was 26.4±9.9 and 25.2±7.6 mmHg (p=0.979), and final IOP was 12.7±2.6 and
13.6±3 mmHg in both groups respectively (p=0.226). At the final follow-up,
complete success was observed in 68.4% and 52.4% of the study and control groups 
(p=0.349) and anti-glaucoma medication was used by 31.6% (mean number of
medications: 0.79±1.2) and 47.6% (mean number of medications: 1.33±1.7),
respectively (p>0.05). Bleb encapsulation, leakage, suture-lysis and hypotony
rates were similar in both groups (for all, p>0.05). Cataract progression was
noted in six (35.3%) and in five (26.3%) of the phakic eyes in the study and
control groups, respectively (p=0.720).
CONCLUSION: When used intracamerally, TA did not increase the complication rate
in trabeculectomy surgery. Although the group that received TA showed lower IOP
levels, use of fewer medications and fewer eyes requiring medication, the
differences did not reach significance.

DOI: 10.4274/tjo.88785 
PMCID: PMC5200822
PMID: 28058152  [PubMed - in process]


15. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2017 Jan 2. pii: S0181-5512(16)30286-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jfo.2016.03.015. [Epub ahead of print]

[Regression of myelinated retinal nerve fibers in a case of primary open-angle
glaucoma].

[Article in French]

Sellem E(1), Poli M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre ophtalmologique Kléber, 50, cours F.-Rossevelt, 69006 Lyon, France.
Electronic address: esellem@aol.com. (2)Centre pôle vision Val-d'Ouest, 39,
chemin de la Vernique, 69130 Écully, France.

Myelinated retinal nerve fibers observed rarely on ocular fundus examination,
usually adjacent to the optic disc, are known to be stable throughout life.
However, the possibility of rarefaction, and even disappearance, of these
myelinated fibers has been pointed out in very rare cases of ocular or
neuro-ophthalmological pathologies. We report such a regression, identified after
a six-year period, in one case of primary open-angle glaucoma.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2016.03.015 
PMID: 28057358  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


16. PLoS One. 2017 Jan 5;12(1):e0169395. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169395.
eCollection 2017.

Flat Anterior Chamber after Trabeculectomy in Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma
with BEST1 Gene Mutation: Case Series.

Zhong Y(1), Guo X(1), Xiao H(1), Luo J(1), Zuo C(1), Huang X(1), Huang J(1), Mi
L(1), Zhang Q(1), Liu X(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.

PURPOSE: Trabeculectomy has been regarded as a mainstay of initial treatment in
eyes of angle closure glaucoma (ACG) with peripheral anterior synechia > 180° in 
the Chinese population while its efficacy in secondary ACG with BEST1 gene
mutation remains unclear. We set out to investigate the treatment outcome of
trabeculectomy for secondary ACG in a group of patients with autosomal recessive 
bestrophinopathy (ARB).
METHODS: In this retrospective case series study, 8 secondary ACG patients with
ARB and their 4 recruited family members underwent a thorough ophthalmic
examination including best-corrected visual acuity, Goldmann applanation
tonometry, gonioscopy, and fundus examinations. Ultrasound biomicroscopy, optical
coherence tomography (OCT), ultrasound A-scan, B-scan, electro-oculography (EOG),
Humphrey perimetry, fundus photography, fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA) and 
indocyanine green angiography (ICGA) were also performed. Blood samples were
obtained in the patients and their available family members to analyze the
variants of the BEST1 gene. Trabeculectomy was performed in the 8 patients (15
eyes).
RESULTS: The age of onset varied from 13 to 38 years. The average axial length
(AL) of the affected eyes was 21.82 ± 0.92 mm and the average anterior chamber
depth (ACD) was 2.19 ± 0.29 mm. There was marked axial shallowing of the anterior
chamber in all 15 eyes after trabeculectomy, and was not improved with potent
mydriatics. The IOP was elevated in 3 eyes. Variable degree of yellowish
subretinal deposits was observed in the posterior retina. The FFA showed
punctuate or patched hyperfluorescence suggesting retinal pigment epithelium
impairment. The ICGA demonstrated dilatation of choroidal vessels. The OCT
revealed diffused neuroretinal detachment in the posterior and midperipheral
retina, with intraretinal fluid collections, and hyperreflective subretinal
accumulations. The average subfoveal choroidal thickness of the patients was
382.36 ± 80.09 μm. All the patients and enrolled family members carried mutation 
in BEST1 gene.
CONCLUSIONS: ARB is a rare condition with fundus manifestations mimicking various
diseases. Careful discrimination should be taken to exclude any secondary causes 
for ACG before treatment. Concerning the high incidence of postoperative shallow 
anterior chamber, selection of filtering surgery should be very careful in these 
patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169395 
PMID: 28056057  [PubMed - in process]


17. Int Ophthalmol. 2017 Jan 4. doi: 10.1007/s10792-016-0435-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Management of sulcus-fixated single-piece intraocular lens-induced pigmentary
glaucoma with 3-piece IOL exchange.

Rabie HM(1), Esfandiari H(2), Rikhtegar MH(3), Hekmat V(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Ophthalmic Research Center, Torfe Medical Center,
Labbafinejad Medical Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences,
Pasdaran Ave. Boostan 9 St., Tehran, 1666694516, Iran. (2)Ophthalmic Research
Center, Labbafinejad Medical Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. hmdesfandiary@gmail.com. (3)Ophthalmic Research Center,
Labbafinejad Medical Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.

PURPOSE: To describe our experience with exchanging sulcus-fixated single-piece
intraocular lens (IOL) with 3-piece IOLs for management of pigmentary glaucoma.
METHOD: In this retrospective study, records of patients who underwent
sulcus-fixated single-piece IOL exchanged with 3-piece IOLs were retrieved, and
demographic and baseline data of patients, type of IOL, pre- and post-IOL
exchange BCVA, IOP, number of anti-glaucoma medications, and optic nerve head
examination were documented. Baseline and final examinations were analyzed and
compared.
RESULTS: Mean age of the patients was 59 ± 10 years, and 5 (41.6%) were female.
Mean interval between primary cataract extraction operation and IOL exchange was 
17 ± 5 months. Nine patients received in sulcus implantation of Alcon SA60AT, and
three patients had SN60WF model at the end of primary surgery. BCVA changed
insignificantly from 0.06 ± 0.06 logMAR to 0.06 ± 0.06 after IOL exchange.
(P = 0.22) IOP was controlled in 8 cases (66.6%), but four cases (33.3%) needed
glaucoma surgery to further control glaucoma condition. IOP decreased
significantly from preoperative 17 ± 3 to 14 ± 1 mmHg postoperatively. Patients
with advanced age and higher baseline IOP were more likely to undergo glaucoma
surgery after IOL exchange. (P = 0.07 and 0.00, respectively).
CONCLUSION: single-piece IOL exchange with 3-piece IOL dramatically decreases
pigment release and reduces IOP. Those with advanced age and higher IOP are less 
likely to respond to IOL exchange and may need glaucoma surgery to control high
intraocular pressure.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-016-0435-9 
PMID: 28054211  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


18. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2016;2016:2370252. doi: 10.1155/2016/2370252. Epub 2016 Dec
7.

Integrated Approaches to Drug Discovery for Oxidative Stress-Related Retinal
Diseases.

Nishimura Y(1), Hara H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology, Pharmacogenomics and
Pharmacoinformatics, Mie University Graduate School of Medicine, Tsu, Mie
514-8507, Japan. (2)Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional
Evaluation, Gifu Pharmaceutical University, Gifu 501-1196, Japan.

Excessive oxidative stress induces dysregulation of functional networks in the
retina, resulting in retinal diseases such as glaucoma, age-related macular
degeneration, and diabetic retinopathy. Although various therapies have been
developed to reduce oxidative stress in retinal diseases, most have failed to
show efficacy in clinical trials. This may be due to oversimplification of target
selection for such a complex network as oxidative stress. Recent advances in
high-throughput technologies have facilitated the collection of multilevel omics 
data, which has driven growth in public databases and in the development of
bioinformatics tools. Integration of the knowledge gained from omics databases
can be used to generate disease-related biological networks and to identify
potential therapeutic targets within the networks. Here, we provide an overview
of integrative approaches in the drug discovery process and provide simple
examples of how the approaches can be exploited to identify oxidative
stress-related targets for retinal diseases.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/2370252 
PMCID: PMC5174186
PMID: 28053689  [PubMed - in process]


19. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 22;11:71-79. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S122683. eCollection
2017.

Assessment of ischemia in acute central retinal vein occlusion from inner retinal
reflectivity on spectral domain optical coherence tomography.

Browning DJ(1), Punjabi OS(1), Lee C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Charlotte Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat Associates,
P.A., Charlotte, NC, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the relationship between different spectral domain optical 
coherence tomography (SD-OCT) signs of retinal ischemia in acute central retinal 
vein occlusion (CRVO) and whether they predict anterior segment
neovascularization (ASNV).
DESIGN: Retrospective, observational study.
SUBJECTS: Thirty-nine consecutive patients with acute CRVO and 12 months of
follow-up.
METHODS: We graded baseline SD-OCTs for increased reflectivity of the inner
retina, loss of definition of inner retinal layers, presence of a prominent
middle-limiting membrane (p-MLM) sign, and presence of paracentral acute middle
maculopathy (PAMM). Graders were masked with respect to all clinical information.
RESULTS: The intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) of grading-regrading by
graders 1 and 2 were 0.8104, 95% confidence interval (CI) (0.6686, 0.8956), and
0.7986, 95% CI (0.6475, 0.8892), respectively. The intragrader coefficients of
repeatability (COR) for graders 1 and 2 were 0.94 and 0.92, respectively. The ICC
of graders 1 compared with 2 was 0.8039, 95% CI (0.6544, 0.8916). The intergrader
COR was 0.80. SD-OCT grades of baseline ischemia were not associated with
baseline visual acuity (VA), central subfield mean thickness (CSMT), or relative 
afferent pupillary defect; 12-month VA, CSMT, change in VA, change in CSMT,
number of antivascular endothelial growth factor injections or corticosteroid
injections, or proportion of eyes developing ASNV. SD-OCT grades of ischemia did 
not correlate with the proportion of eyes having the p-MLM sign or PAMM. PAMM and
p-MLM are milder signs of ischemia than increased reflectivity of the inner
retinal layers. Eyes with PAMM can evolve, losing PAMM and gaining the p-MLM
sign.
CONCLUSION: Grading of ischemia from SD-OCT in acute CRVO was repeatable within
graders and reproducible across graders for the graders in this study. SD-OCT
signs of ischemia are not correlated with each other and do not reliably predict 
subsequent ASNV. Close monitoring of eyes with acute CRVO continues to be the
safest method to avoid missing ASNV and neovascular glaucoma.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S122683 
PMCID: PMC5189968
PMID: 28053503  [PubMed - in process]


20. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 20;11:55-61. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S120639. eCollection
2017.

Fixed combination of travoprost and timolol maleate reduces intraocular pressure 
in Japanese patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension:
analysis by prostaglandin analogue.

Nakano T(1), Mizoue S(2), Fuse N(3), Iwase A(4), Matsumoto S(5), Yoshikawa K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Jikei University School of Medicine,
Nishi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Ehime
University Graduate School of Medicine, Shitsukawa, Toon-city, Ehime.
(3)Department of Integrative Genomics, Tohoku Medical Megabank Organization,
Seiryo-machi, Sendai, Miyagi. (4)Tajimi Iwase Eye Clinic, Hon-machi, Tajimi,
Gifu. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Tokyo Teishin Hospital, Fujimi, Chiyoda-ku.
(6)Yoshikawa Eye Clinic, Naka-machi, Machida, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We have shown a decrease in mean intraocular pressure (IOP) by
switching to travoprost/timolol fixed combination (TTFC) in subjects receiving
prostaglandin analogue (PGA) monotherapy and requiring additional medication in a
previous report. For analyzing factors affecting IOP reduction, baseline IOP and 
preceding PGA were selected as statistically and clinically significant factors. 
In this report, we examine IOP-lowering effect and adverse drug reactions by
preceding PGA.
METHODS: Patients with primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who
received monotherapy with one of four PGAs (travoprost, latanoprost, tafluprost, 
or bimatoprost) for at least 3 months at 26 institutions and were determined to
require additional medication by their primary physician were included. IOP
reduction and adverse events were examined at 4, 8, and 12 weeks for each of four
PGAs after switching to TTFC.
RESULTS: In total, 157 patients who could be followed up for at least 4 weeks
after switching to TTFC were included in the efficacy analysis. Multiple
regression analysis was performed, and baseline IOP and PGA were found to be
significant factors to IOP reduction. IOP reduction at week 12, adjusted with the
regression model, was -3.5, -1.8, and -1.4 mmHg in the tafluprost, latanoprost,
and travoprost groups, whereas it was -0.5 mmHg in the bimatoprost group. Along
with differences in baseline IOP between groups, an IOP-lowering effect of >1
mmHg was noted in the tafluprost, latanoprost, and travoprost groups after the
switch. IOP was maintained at 13.8-14.8 mmHg throughout the follow-up period. No 
serious adverse events or noteworthy issues were observed in any group after the 
switch.
CONCLUSION: Clinically significant IOP-reducing effects of TTFC were observed in 
the latanoprost, travoprost, and tafluprost groups when switching from each PGA
monotherapy, while there were some differences in effects between groups, with
minimal safety concerns.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S120639 
PMCID: PMC5189969
PMID: 28053501  [PubMed - in process]


21. Med J Armed Forces India. 2016 Dec;72(Suppl 1):S173-S175. doi:
10.1016/j.mjafi.2016.06.005. Epub 2016 Jul 26.

A case of bilateral retinal venous occlusion in open angle glaucoma in a young
adult.

Khan MA(1), Gurunadh VS(2), Gupta A(3), Gupta S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Associate Professor, Ophthalmology and VR Surgeon, Armed Forces Medical
College, Pune 411040, India. (2)Commandant, Military Hospital Wellington, Tamil
Nadu, India. (3)Resident, Ophthalmology, Armed Forces Medical College, Pune
411040, India. (4)Assistant Professor, Ophthalmology, Armed Forces Medical
College, Pune 411040, India.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mjafi.2016.06.005 
PMCID: PMC5192232 [Available on 2017-12-01]
PMID: 28050105  [PubMed]


22. Med J Armed Forces India. 2016 Dec;72(Suppl 1):S123-S125. doi:
10.1016/j.mjafi.2015.11.013. Epub 2016 Feb 23.

Ocular ischemic syndrome: A rare cause of postoperative visual loss following
coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.

Chaturvedi PK(1), Kumar S(2), Kumar P(3), Prasad SP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Classified Specialist (Ophthalmology), Command Hospital (Southern Command),
Pune 411040, India. (2)Senior Advisor (Ophthalmology), Army Hospital (R&R), Delhi
Cantt 110010, India. (3)Professor and HOD, Dept of Ophthalmology, Base Hospital, 
Delhi Cantt 110010, India. (4)Professor, Dept of Ophthalmology, ANIMS, Port Blair
744101, Andaman and Nicobar, India.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mjafi.2015.11.013 
PMCID: PMC5192169 [Available on 2017-12-01]
PMID: 28050090  [PubMed]


23. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2017 Jan 3. pii: 201613445. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1613445114. [Epub ahead of print]

Imaging individual neurons in the retinal ganglion cell layer of the living eye.

Rossi EA(1), Granger CE(2,)(3), Sharma R(2), Yang Q(2), Saito K(4), Schwarz C(2),
Walters S(2,)(3), Nozato K(4), Zhang J(2), Kawakami T(4), Fischer W(5), Latchney 
LR(5), Hunter JJ(2,)(5), Chung MM(2,)(5), Williams DR(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Visual Science, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14642;
rossiea@pitt.edu. (2)Center for Visual Science, University of Rochester,
Rochester, NY 14642. (3)The Institute of Optics, University of Rochester,
Rochester, NY 14620. (4)Canon USA, Inc., Melville, NY 11747. (5)Flaum Eye
Institute, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY 14642.

Although imaging of the living retina with adaptive optics scanning light
ophthalmoscopy (AOSLO) provides microscopic access to individual cells, such as
photoreceptors, retinal pigment epithelial cells, and blood cells in the retinal 
vasculature, other important cell classes, such as retinal ganglion cells, have
proven much more challenging to image. The near transparency of inner retinal
cells is advantageous for vision, as light must pass through them to reach the
photoreceptors, but it has prevented them from being directly imaged in vivo.
Here we show that the individual somas of neurons within the retinal ganglion
cell (RGC) layer can be imaged with a modification of confocal AOSLO, in both
monkeys and humans. Human images of RGC layer neurons did not match the quality
of monkey images for several reasons, including safety concerns that limited the 
light levels permissible for human imaging. We also show that the same technique 
applied to the photoreceptor layer can resolve ambiguity about cone survival in
age-related macular degeneration. The capability to noninvasively image RGC layer
neurons in the living eye may one day allow for a better understanding of
diseases, such as glaucoma, and accelerate the development of therapeutic
strategies that aim to protect these cells. This method may also prove useful for
imaging other structures, such as neurons in the brain.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1613445114 
PMID: 28049835  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


24. Expert Opin Ther Pat. 2017 Jan 3. doi: 10.1080/13543776.2017.1272579. [Epub ahead
of print]

Rho kinase inhibitors: a patent review (2014 - 2016).

Defert O(1), Boland S(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Amakem Therapeutics NV , Agoralaan A Bis , 3590 Diepenbeek , Belgium. (2)b
Cistim , Gaston Geenslaan 2 , 3001 Leuven , Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: The Rho-kinases (ROCK), ROCK1 and ROCK2, are potent, widespread
biochemical modulators which have been extensively studied. Due to the
involvement of ROCKs in multiple biological processes, ROCK inhibitors have
pleiotropic actions and may be of relevance for a number of therapeutic
applications. The drawback is however that their use might be limited by
occurrence of side effects. Areas covered: Since the publication of the latest
review in 2014, there have been significant advances in the field of ROCK
inhibitors. In this paper we reviewed the patents published between September
2013 and September 2016.. Recent novel molecules will be described. and progress 
from the compounds series described in the previous review as well as any new
expected therapeutic uses for ROCK inhibitors that popped up in the last three
years will be examined. Expert opinion: While a number of potential applications 
in human for ROCK inhibitors have been reported, very few molecules are currently
available to patients. In addition to fasudil, ripasudil (K-115, Kowa) was only
recently approved in Japan for the treatment of glaucoma (2014). Notwithstanding 
some failures and subsequent discontinuation, the Pipeline of preclinical and
clinical ROCK inhibitors remains significant.

DOI: 10.1080/13543776.2017.1272579 
PMID: 28048944  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


25. Med Phys. 2016 Jun;43(6):3390. doi: 10.1118/1.4955846.

SU-F-I-18: Altered Visual Cortex Responses by Wide-View FMRI in Primary Open
Angle Glaucoma Patients.

Zhou W(1), Muir E(1), Chalfin S(1), Nagi K(1), Clarke G(1), Duong T(1).

Author information: 
(1)UT Health Sciences Center, San Antonio, TX.

PURPOSE: Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a common ocular disorder with
progressive retinal ganglion cell loss. This study explored the application of
wide view fMRI to evaluate neural activity of the whole visual cortex and its
relation with visual field functions in POAG patients.
METHODS: Nine subjects with diagnosed POAG (age: 59.9±10.9 y.o., 4 males) and
nine age-matched healthy volunteers (age: 58.0±4.6 y.o., 6 males) were scanned on
a 3T Siemens scanner. For each subject, wide view (110°) visual stimulation of a 
rotating wedge was performed during fMRI acquisition. T1-MPRAGE was used to
acquire anatomical images as a reference. fMRI signal percent change was
calculated for quadrant areas of the visual field for each subject. Group
comparison was performed using non-parametric Mann-Whitney test with Bonferroni
correction. In POAG patients, indices of visual field score and retina layer
thickness from each quadrant were correlated with the corresponding fMRI percent 
changes by Spearman's method. P<0.05 was the threshold for statistical
significance.
RESULTS: The fMRI signal percent changes of moderate (0.65±0.10, N=9) and
advanced (0.44±0.05, N=2) POAG quadrant visual cortex showed significant decrease
(moderate: P<0.05; severe: P<0.01) compared with normal (1.02±0.05, N=36).
Slightly reduced fMRI signal in early POAG (0.97±0.07, N=25) was observed but not
statistically significant. For POAG patients, the fMRI responses per quadrant
activation were positively correlated with the clinical visual field scores
(ρ=0.48, P<0.005); no correlation was found between fMRI response and retinal
nerve layer thickness (ρ=0.01, P>0.05).
CONCLUSION: fMRI revealed a functional decrease of the neural activity in the
visual cortex in moderate and advanced POAG. The correlation of fMRI signal with 
visual field test results indicate fMRI could be used as an objective tool to
quantify visual field defects for glaucoma patients.

© 2016 American Association of Physicists in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1118/1.4955846 
PMID: 28048887  [PubMed - in process]


26. J Ophthalmol. 2016;2016:3062381. doi: 10.1155/2016/3062381. Epub 2016 Dec 4.

Applications of Scheimpflug Imaging in Glaucoma Management: Current and Potential
Applications.

Nguyen AT(1), Liu T(1), Liu J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Yale School of Medicine, New
Haven, CT, USA.

Scheimpflug photography is the basis for a variety of imaging devices that are
highly versatile. The applications of Scheimpflug imaging are wide in scope,
spanning from evaluation of corneal ectasia to quantifying density in nuclear
sclerotic cataracts. The potential uses for Scheimpflug-based devices are
expanding and a number of them are relevant in glaucoma. In particular, they can 
provide three-dimensional image reconstruction of the anterior segment which
includes assessment of the iridocorneal angle. Photographic analyses allow also
for a noncontact method of estimating central corneal thickness (CCT) and
intraocular pressure (IOP), as well as the study of various corneal biomechanical
properties, which may be useful for stratifying glaucoma risk.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/3062381 
PMCID: PMC5164893
PMID: 28044101  [PubMed]


27. Br J Ophthalmol. 2017 Jan 2. pii: bjophthalmol-2016-309047. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309047. [Epub ahead of print]

Cataract surgery in uveitis: a multicentre database study.

Chu CJ(1,)(2), Dick AD(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Johnston RL(5), Yang YC(6), Denniston
AK(7,)(8); UK Pseudophakic Macular Edema Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Unit of Ophthalmology, School of Clinical Sciences and School of
Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. (2)Bristol
Eye Hospital, Bristol, UK. (3)Institute of Ophthalmology, UCL, London, UK.
(4)National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre at
Moorfields Eye Hospital and University College London Institute of Ophthalmology,
London, UK. (5)Gloucestershire Eye Unit, Cheltenham General Hospital, Cheltenham,
UK. (6)Wolverhampton Eye Infirmary, Royal Wolverhampton Hospitals NHS Trust,
Wolverhampton, UK. (7)Ophthalmology Department, University Hospitals Birmingham
NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK. (8)Academic Unit of Ophthalmology,
Institute of Inflammation and Ageing, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Cataract is an important source of visual loss in patients with 
uveitis. Whether or not outcomes of cataract surgery in eyes with uveitis are
worse compared with non-uveitic eyes have to date been compromised by lack of
reliable estimates of benefit and harm, which require data from large cohorts.
METHODS: Electronic medical record data were extracted from eight independent UK 
clinical sites for eyes undergoing cataract extraction between January 2010 and
December 2014. 1173 eyes with a recorded diagnosis of uveitis were compared with 
a reference group of 95 573 eyes from the same dataset.
RESULTS: Uveitic eyes represented 1.2% of all eyes undergoing cataract surgery.
Eyes in the uveitic group had worse preoperative visual acuity (0.87 vs 0.65
logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) units), were from younger
patients and had shorter axial lengths and a higher incidence of ocular
copathology including glaucoma. A greater number had documented small pupils,
required additional surgical procedures, developed more intraoperative
complications and had poorer postoperative visual acuity at all time points
measured up to 6 months (0.41 vs 0.27 logMAR units at 12-24 weeks).
CONCLUSIONS: This large study cohort of eyes with a diagnosis of uveitis
undergoing cataract surgery highlights more precisely the complex surgical
demands, copathology and worse visual outcomes in this group. These data will
allow more accurate preoperative counselling and planning. Although improvement
in visual acuity is achieved in most cases, prognosis should be guarded, so that 
patient expectations are met. Compared with the non-uveitic population, the mean 
postoperative visual acuity is between one and two lines worse at all time
points.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309047 
PMID: 28043984  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


28. Int Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 31. doi: 10.1007/s10792-016-0426-x. [Epub ahead of
print]

Impact of laser pulse duration on the reduction of intraocular pressure during
selective laser trabeculoplasty.

Stunf Pukl S(1), Drnovšek-Olup B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Eye Hospital, University Clinical Center, Barvarska 4, 1000, Ljubljana,
Slovenia. spela.stunf@siol.net. (2)Eye Hospital, University Clinical Center,
Barvarska 4, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) to
lower intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG), normal tension glaucoma (NTG) or ocular hypertension (OHT), when
performed with laser pulse duration of 1 ns compared with standard 3-5 ns.
METHODS: Bilateral SLT with a 532 nm Q-switched neodymium-doped yttrium aluminium
garnet laser was conducted in 30 patients (60 eyes) with POAG (n = 5), NTG
(n = 2) or OHT (n = 23). Pulse duration was 1 ns in the right eye (30 eyes;
cases) and 3-5 ns in all left eyes (controls). Main outcome measures were IOP at 
1 h, 1 day, 8 weeks and 6 months, and the rate of adverse ocular tissue reactions
in all eyes.
RESULTS: Mean 1 ns and 3-5 ns SLT IOPs were 24.1 and 24.3 mmHg, respectively, at 
baseline. No statistically significant difference in mean 1 ns and 3-5 ns SLT IOP
was observed at 1 h (P = 0.761), 1 day (P = 0.758), 8 weeks (P = 0.352) and
6 months postoperatively (P = 0.879). No significant difference in postoperative 
anterior chamber inflammation was observed between the eyes (P = 0.529).
Treatment with both laser pulse durations resulted in minor ultrastructural
changes in the drainage angle.
CONCLUSIONS: SLT performed with a 1 ns laser pulse duration does not appear to be
inferior to SLT performed with the standard 3-5 ns duration at lowering IOP in
treatment-naïve patients with POAG, NTG or OHT.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-016-0426-x 
PMID: 28040851  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


29. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2016 Nov 28. pii: S0049-0172(16)30441-3. doi:
10.1016/j.semarthrit.2016.11.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Serious adverse effects associated with glucocorticoid therapy in patients with
giant cell arteritis (GCA): A nested case-control analysis.

Wilson JC(1), Sarsour K(2), Collinson N(3), Tuckwell K(3), Musselman D(2),
Klearman M(2), Napalkov P(2), Jick SS(4), Stone JH(5), Meier CR(6).

Author information: 
(1)Basel Pharmacoepidemiology Unit, Hospital Pharmacy, University of Basel,
Basel, Switzerland. (2)Genentech, Inc, South San Francisco, CA. (3)Roche Products
Ltd, Welwyn Garden City, United Kingdom. (4)Boston Collaborative Drug
Surveillance Program (BCDSP), Boston University School of Public Health,
Lexington, MA. (5)Massachusetts General Hospital Rheumatology Unit, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA. (6)Basel Pharmacoepidemiology Unit, Hospital
Pharmacy, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; Boston Collaborative Drug
Surveillance Program (BCDSP), Boston University School of Public Health,
Lexington, MA; Hospital Pharmacy, University Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: Christoph.Meier@usb.ch.

OBJECTIVE: Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is an inflammatory vasculitis
preferentially affecting large and medium-sized arteries. High-dose oral
glucocorticoids (GCs) are the mainstay of GCA therapy. Using data from the UK
Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD), we examined the risk of oral
GC-related serious adverse events (SAEs) in a UK population of patients with
giant cell arteritis (GCA).
METHODS: We conducted a series of nested case-control analyses in GCA patients to
examine the effect of increasing dose of prednisolone on the risk of developing
diabetes, glaucoma, osteoporosis, fractures, serious infection requiring
hospitalization, and death. We used conditional logistic regression to calculate 
the unadjusted and multivariate odds ratios (ORs) with 95% CIs for the
associations between prednisolone use and the risks of all outcomes of interest. 
We stratified the analyses by increasing cumulative prednisolone use and average 
daily dose.
RESULTS: In the multivariate analyses, we observed a trend of increasing risk of 
diabetes and osteoporosis with increasing cumulative dose of oral prednisolone
(p(trend) < 0.05). GCA patients in the highest daily dose category (30mg/d) had
an increased risk of diabetes (adjusted OR, 95% CI) (4.7, 2.8-7.8), osteoporosis 
(1.9, 1.2-2.9), fractures (2.6, 1.6-4.3), glaucoma (3.5, 2.0-6.1), serious
infection (3.3, 2.2-5.2), and death (2.1, 1.3-3.5) compared to those with lower
average daily prednisolone doses (5mg/d).
CONCLUSION: Compared to lower average daily prednisolone doses, high average
daily doses were associated with an increased risk of serious adverse effects.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semarthrit.2016.11.006 
PMID: 28040244  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


30. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2016 Dec 28. pii: S1350-9462(16)30051-9. doi:
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.12.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Primary angle closure glaucoma: What we know and what we don't know.

Sun X(1), Dai Y(2), Chen Y(2), Yu DY(3), Cringle SJ(3), Chen J(2), Kong X(2),
Wang X(2), Jiang C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai
Medical College, Fudan University, China; Key Laboratory of Myopia of State
Health Ministry (Fudan University) and Key Laboratory of Visual Impairment and
Restoration of Shanghai, China; State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology,
Institutes of Brain Science and Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain
Science, Fudan University, China. Electronic address: xhsun@shmu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai
Medical College, Fudan University, China; Key Laboratory of Myopia of State
Health Ministry (Fudan University) and Key Laboratory of Visual Impairment and
Restoration of Shanghai, China. (3)Centre for Ophthalmology and Visual Science,
The University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia; Lions Eye Institute, The
University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.

Primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) is a common cause of blindness. Angle
closure is a fundamental pathologic process in PAGC. With the development of
imaging devices for the anterior segment of the eye, a better understanding of
the pathogenesis of angle closure has been reached. Aside from pupillary block
and plateau iris, multiple-mechanisms are more common contributors for closure of
the angle such as choroidal thickness and uveal expansion, which may be
responsible for the presenting features of PACG. Recent Genome Wide Association
Studies identified several new PACG loci and genes, which may shed light on the
molecular mechanisms of PACG. The current classification systems of PACG remain
controversial. Focusing the anterior chamber angle is a principal management
strategy for PACG. Treatments to open the angle or halt the angle closure process
such as laser peripheral iridotomy and/or iridoplasty, as well as cataract
extraction, are proving their effectiveness. PACG may be preventable in the early
stages if future research can identify which kind of angles and/or persons are
more likely to benefit from prophylactic treatment. New treatment strategies like
adjusting the psychological status and balancing the sympathetic-parasympathetic 
nerve activity, and innovative medicines are needed to improve the prognosis of
PACG. In this review, we intend to describe current understanding and unknown
aspects of PACG, and to share the clinical experience and viewpoints of the
authors.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.12.003 
PMID: 28039061  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


31. Ophthalmology. 2016 Dec 27. pii: S0161-6420(16)31311-2. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.11.018. [Epub ahead of print]

Evaluation of the Myocilin Mutation Gln368Stop Demonstrates Reduced Penetrance
for Glaucoma in European Populations.

Nag A(1), Lu H(2), Arno M(2), Iglesias AI(3), Bonnemaijer P(3), Broer L(4),
Uitterlinden AG(5), Klaver CC(6), van Duijn C(7), Hysi PG(8), Hammond CJ(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Twin Research and Genetic Epidemiology, King's College London,
St. Thomas' Hospital, London, United Kingdom. (2)King's Genomics Facilities,
King's College London, London, United Kingdom. (3)Department of Epidemiology,
Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Ophthalmology, 
Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (4)Department of Internal
Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (5)Department of
Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Department of
Internal Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands;
Netherlands Consortium for Healthy Ageing, Netherlands Genomic Initiative, the
Hague, The Netherlands. (6)Department of Ophthalmology, Erasmus Medical Center,
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (7)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (8)Department of Twin Research and Genetic
Epidemiology, King's College London, St. Thomas' Hospital, London, United
Kingdom; Department of Ophthalmology, King's College London, London, United
Kingdom. (9)Department of Twin Research and Genetic Epidemiology, King's College 
London, St. Thomas' Hospital, London, United Kingdom; Department of
Ophthalmology, King's College London, London, United Kingdom. Electronic address:
chris.hammond@kcl.ac.uk.

PURPOSE: Sequence variations in the myocilin (MYOC) gene account for
approximately 2% to 4% of glaucoma cases. One particular MYOC mutation,
Gln368Stop (dbSNP accession number: rs74315329), is the most common genetic
mutation causing glaucoma by increasing intraocular pressure (IOP). The objective
of this study was to evaluate the effect of this MYOC mutation on IOP using data 
from large-scale European population panels (directly sequenced and imputation
based).
DESIGN: Cross-sectional, cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: For this study, the penetrance of the variant rs74315329 was
estimated in 2 population-based cohorts, the TwinsUK (N = 6092) and the Rotterdam
Study (RS) (N =11 189).
METHODS: Carriers of the risk allele for rs74315329 were identified using
whole-genome sequencing and imputation data (based on 1000 Genomes Project and
Haplotype Reference Consortium panels). The penetrance of this variant was
evaluated using IOP measurements and data on visual field testing/a diagnosis of 
glaucoma (if available).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The penetrance of the variant rs74315329 was estimated
from the percentage of the carriers of the risk allele of the variant who had
high IOP (ocular hypertension) or glaucoma.
RESULTS: In our study, the observed penetrance of the variant rs74315329 in
relation to increased IOP was 12.5% and 19.4% in the TwinsUK and the RS,
respectively. Thus, our study suggests a much lower penetrance for rs74315329 for
ocular hypertension (and thus glaucoma), in comparison with that reported
previously.
CONCLUSIONS: The significance of this finding is that higher numbers of healthy
individuals in the population are expected to be carriers of this mutation, which
in turn reduces the utility of identifying carriers of this mutation as a
screening tool for glaucoma.

Copyright © 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.11.018 
PMID: 28038983  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


32. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2016 Dec 27. pii: S0365-6691(16)30236-2. doi:
10.1016/j.oftal.2016.11.008. [Epub ahead of print]

Charles Bonnet syndrome in a child with congenital glaucoma.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Santos-Bueso E(1), Serrador-García M(2), Sáenz-Francés F(2), Méndez-Hernández
C(2), Morales-Fernández L(2), Martínez-de-la-Casa JM(2), García-Feijoo J(2),
Porta-Etessam J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Neurooftalmología, Servicio de Oftalmología, Instituto de
Investigación Sanitaria, Hospital Clínico San Carlos (IdISSC), Madrid, España.
Electronic address: esbueso@hotmail.com. (2)Unidad de Neurooftalmología, Servicio
de Oftalmología, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria, Hospital Clínico San
Carlos (IdISSC), Madrid, España.

CASE REPORT: The case is presented of a 12 year-old boy with congenital glaucoma 
and low visual acuity diagnosed with Charles Bonnet syndrome. This consisted of
the acute onset of complex, repetitive, persistent, and with visual
hallucinations (people, brooms and coffeemakers) of self-limited evolution
without treatment. The patient was diagnosed with congenital glaucoma at 3 years 
of age, and subjected to a trabeculectomy in right eye, and trabeculectomy and
keratoplasty in his left eye.
DISCUSSION: Charles Bonnet syndrome symptoms have been described in adults, but
their presence in children is poorly reflected in literature, with unknown
characteristics and prevalence.

Copyright © 2016 Sociedad Española de Oftalmología. Publicado por Elsevier
España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oftal.2016.11.008 
PMID: 28038923  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


33. Curr Med Res Opin. 2016 Dec 30:1-27. doi: 10.1080/03007995.2016.1277198. [Epub
ahead of print]

Efficacy of Nd-YAG laser iridotomies in Primary Angle-Closure Diseases: superior 
peripheral iridotomy versus inferior peripheral iridotomy.

Ahmadi M(1), Naderi Beni Z(2), Naderi Beni A(1), Kianersi F(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Shahrekord University of Medical Sciences ,
Shahrekord , Iran. (2)b Isfahan University of Medical Sciences , Isfahan , Iran. 
(3)c Department of Ophthalmology , Isfahan University of Medical Sciences ,
Isfahan , Iran.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of superior peripheral iridotomy
versus inferior peripheral iridotomy in the treatment of primary angle closure
glaucoma (PACG) in phakic patients.
METHODS: In this randomized, prospective, paired-eye comparative study, patients 
with primary angle closure or primary angle-closure suspects were recruited and
randomized to receive (NdYAG) laser peripheral iridotomy (LPI) superiorly in one 
eye and inferiorly in the other eye. Patients were masked to the location of
treatment in each eye. The main outcome measures were patency of iridotomy,
intraocular pressure (IOP), complications and visual symptoms at each
postoperative visit during a one-year follow-up.
RESULTS: In this study a total of 164 patients were recruited, which 150 (91.46%)
completed this study. The mean age was 58.85±6.4 years. Average IOP measurements 
before LPI was 22.85 ± 7.53 and 23.62±8.32 in superior LPI and Inferior LPI eyes 
respectively. After LPI, average IOP was 25.14±2.73 and 20.97±2.72 in superior
LPI and Inferior LPI eyes respectively. Inferior LPIs required less use of mean
total laser energy to perforate the tissue (p = 0.05) and resulted in a
significantly lower incidence of iris bleeding at the time of treatment
(p = 0.004), lower IOP elevation following treatment (p = 0.002), lower incidence
of focal corneal damage (p = 0.002) and a lower post laser iritis (p = 0.04). All
the 300 iridotomies were patent at 12 months follow up.
CONCLUSION: The inferior LPI appeared to be an efficient method of preventing
pupil block with fewer complications . Visual symptoms following inferior LPI are
similar to superior LPI.

DOI: 10.1080/03007995.2016.1277198 
PMID: 28035845  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


34. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 30. doi: 10.1111/aos.13345. [Epub ahead of print]

Diabetes mellitus as a risk factor for glaucoma outcome in Korea.

Kim SW(1), Kang GW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, National Police Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Health Informatics and Management, College of Medicine, Chungbuk
National University, Cheongju, Korea.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13345 
PMID: 28035793  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


35. BMC Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 29;16(1):217. doi: 10.1186/s12886-016-0393-z.

Collagen matrix vs mitomycin-C in trabeculectomy and combined phacoemulsification
and trabeculectomy: a randomized controlled trial.

Tanna AP(1), Rademaker AW(2), de Moraes CG(3), Godfrey DG(4), Sarkisian SR Jr(5),
Vold SD(6), Ritch R(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of
Medicine, 645 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 440, Chicago, IL, 60611, USA.
atanna@northwestern.edu. (2)Department of Preventive Medicine, Northwestern
University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. (3)Edward S. Harkness
Eye Institute, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, USA. (4)Glaucoma
Associates of Texas, Dallas, TX, USA. (5)Dean McGee Eye Institute, Oklahoma City,
OK, USA. (6)Vold Vision, Fayetteville, AR, USA. (7)Einhorn Clinical Research
Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Antifibrotic agents are commonly utilized to enhance the success
rates of trabeculectomy. Novel approaches to further improve success rates and
reduce the risks of complications are needed. The purpose of this study was to
compare intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy and safety of trabeculectomy
or combined phacoemulsification and trabeculectomy with mitomycin-C (MMC) vs.
Collagen Matrix (CM).
METHODS: A prospective, multicenter, randomized controlled trial was performed.
Ninety-five eyes of 94 patients with uncontrolled glaucoma despite medical
therapy, without previous incisional glaucoma surgery underwent trabeculectomy
(85 eyes) or combined phacoemulsification and trabeculectomy (10 eyes) and were
randomized to MMC or CM. One eye of each subject was analyzed. Patients were
followed for 24 months. The criteria for complete success were IOP >5 and
≤21 mmHg with at least a 20% reduction below medicated baseline without
additional glaucoma surgery or medications. The main outcome measures were
complete success rates at 24 months with Kaplan-Meier analysis and incidence of
adverse events.
RESULTS: The baseline IOPs were 20.4 ± 6.0 mmHg and 21.2 ± 6.1 (mean ± standard
deviation, p = 0.49) on 3.2 ± 1.1 and 3.1 ± 1.0 medications (p = 0.53) compared
to 11.8 ± 5.2 and 12.8 ± 3.7 (p = 0.36) on 0.5 ± 0.8 and 0.6 ± 1.0 medications
(p = 0.63) at 2 years in the MMC and CM groups, respectively. Kaplan-Meier
analysis demonstrated complete success rates were similar in both groups at
24 months: 38.4 ± 7.6% with MMC and 56.2 ± 7.9% with CM (mean ± standard error,
p = 0.112, log rank test); however, a significantly higher incidence of failure
due to persistent hypotony was observed with MMC (p = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the CM implant at the time of trabeculectomy or combined
phacoemulsification and trabeculectomy is associated with similar complete
success rates compared to adjunctive MMC; however, the risk of persistent
hypotony is higher with MMC.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov registration number NCT01440751 .
Registered 9/14/11.

DOI: 10.1186/s12886-016-0393-z 
PMCID: PMC5200961
PMID: 28034308  [PubMed - in process]


36. J Clin Oncol. 2017 Jan;35(1):72-77. Epub 2016 Oct 31.

Ocular Salvage and Vision Preservation Using a Topotecan-Based Regimen for
Advanced Intraocular Retinoblastoma.

Brennan RC(1), Qaddoumi I(1), Mao S(1), Wu J(1), Billups CA(1), Stewart CF(1),
Hoehn ME(1), Rodriguez-Galindo C(1), Wilson MW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rachel C. Brennan, Ibrahim Qaddoumi, Shenghua Mao, Jianrong Wu, Catherine A.
Billups, Clinton F. Stewart, Carlos Rodriguez-Galindo, and Matthew W. Wilson, St 
Jude Children's Research Hospital; and Rachel C. Brennan, Ibrahim Qaddoumi,
Clinton F. Stewart, Mary Ellen Hoehn, and Matthew W. Wilson, University of
Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN.

Purpose To evaluate topotecan-based therapy for advanced intraocular
retinoblastoma. Patients and Methods Twenty-seven patients with bilateral
retinoblastoma (male patients, n = 14; median age, 8.4 months) received
chemotherapy: two courses of topotecan plus vincristine followed by three
alternating administrations of carboplatin and vincristine for two courses and
topotecan plus vincristine for one course, with optional periocular carboplatin. 
Focal therapy was applied after cycle 2. Event-free survival was defined as
avoidance of external-beam radiotherapy (EBRT) and enucleation. Results Of 54
eyes, 42 were Reese-Ellsworth group IV to V, and 37 were International
Classification of Retinoblastoma group C to E. Eleven eyes were enucleated: one
at diagnosis, nine with progressive disease including three eyes treated with
EBRT, and one that developed neovascular glaucoma after completion of therapy.
One patient was removed from protocol with prolonged infection in course 1; 26
patients (51 eyes) were analyzed. At 10 years, cumulative incidence of EBRT was
5.9% (SE ± 3), and event-free survival was 69.2% (SE ± 27.2). Ocular survival for
Reese-Ellsworth group IV to V eyes was 77.5% (SE ± 21.2); it was 74.3% (SE ≥
18.8) for International Classification group C to E eyes. Vision testing (median 
age, 7 years; range, 5 to 10 years) documented 20/70 vision or better in one eye 
of 23 patients; 19 (76%) of 25 patients demonstrated 20/40 vision or better in
one eye. All patients experienced thrombocytopenia (41 episodes in 275 courses;
15%). There were 29 episodes of febrile neutropenia (10%). Grade 3 diarrhea was
present in nine of 27 patients, and one patient had an allergic reaction to
carboplatin. All patients are alive at median follow-up 7.4 years (range, 2.7 to 
10 years). Conclusion Topotecan combined with vincristine, carboplatin, and
aggressive focal therapies is an effective regimen for the treatment of advanced 
retinoblastoma and results in globe salvage with vision. Toxicities were
anticipated and managed with appropriate supportive care.


PMID: 28034080  [PubMed - in process]


37. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Dec;95(52):e5775. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005775.

Retinal and choroidal oxygen saturation of the optic nerve head in open-angle
glaucoma subjects by multispectral imaging.

Li GY(1), Al-Wesabi SA, Zhang H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China..

The aim of this study was to determine whether differences exist in oxygen supply
to the optic nerve head (ONH) from the retinal and choroidal vascular layers in
patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) using multispectral imaging
(MSI).This ia an observational, cross-sectional study.Multispectral images were
acquired from 38 eyes of 19 patients with POAG, and 42 healthy eyes from 21
matched volunteers with Annidis' RHA multispectral digital ophthalmoscopy.
Superficial and deeper oxygen saturation of the optic disc was represented by the
mean gray scale values on the retinal and choroidal oxy-deoxy maps, respectively.
Statistical analysis was performed to detect differences in ONH oxygen saturation
between the 2 groups. Oxygen saturation levels in the eyes of POAG patients with 
severe glaucoma were compared to those of fellow eyes from the same subjects.
Linear correlation analysis was performed to assess the association between ONH
oxygen saturation and systemic and ocular parameters.No statistical difference
was found in retinal and choroidal oxygen saturation between the POAG and control
groups. In the glaucoma patients, retinal oxygen saturation was lower for eyes
with worse visual fields than in those with good visual fields (t = 4.009,
P = 0.001). In POAG patients, retinal oxygen saturation was dependent on mean
defect of visual field and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (RNFLT)
(r = 0.511, 0.504, P = 0.001, 0.001, respectively), whereas the choroid
vasculature oxygen saturation was inversely related to RNFLT (r = -0.391,
P = 0.015). An age-dependent increase in retinal oxygen saturation was found for 
both the POAG and control groups (r = 0.473, 0.410, P = 0.007, 0.003,
respectively).MSI revealed a significant correlation between functional and
structural impairments in glaucoma and retinal oxygen saturation. MSI could
provide objective assessments of perfusion impairments of the glaucomatous ONH.
This is a preliminary indication of the effectiveness of MSI for studying POAG.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005775 
PMID: 28033298  [PubMed - in process]


38. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Dec;95(52):e5745. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005745.

Maximizing cost-effectiveness by adjusting treatment strategy according to
glaucoma severity.

Guedes RA(1), Guedes VM, Gomes CE, Chaoubah A.

Author information: 
(1)aStatistics Department and Public Health Department, Federal University of
Juiz de Fora bOphthalmology Department, Santa Casa de Misericórdia Hospital
cGlaucoma Department, Paletta Guedes Ophthalmological Center, Juiz de Fora, MG,
Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to determine the most cost-effective
strategy for the treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in Brazil, from 
the payer's perspective (Brazilian Public Health System) in the setting of the
Glaucoma Referral Centers.
METHODS: Study design was a cost-effectiveness analysis of different treatment
strategies for POAG. We developed 3 Markov models (one for each glaucoma stage:
early, moderate and advanced), using a hypothetical cohort of POAG patients, from
the perspective of the Brazilian Public Health System (SUS) and a horizon of the 
average life expectancy of the Brazilian population. Different strategies were
tested according to disease severity. For early glaucoma, we compared
observation, laser and medications. For moderate glaucoma, medications, laser and
surgery. For advanced glaucoma, medications and surgery. Main outcome measures
were ICER (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio), medical direct costs and QALY
(quality-adjusted life year).
RESULTS: In early glaucoma, both laser and medical treatment were cost-effective 
(ICERs of initial laser and initial medical treatment over observation only, were
R$ 2,811.39/QALY and R$ 3,450.47/QALY). Compared to observation strategy, the two
alternatives have provided significant gains in quality of life. In moderate
glaucoma population, medical treatment presented the highest costs among
treatment strategies. Both laser and surgery were highly cost-effective in this
group. For advanced glaucoma, both tested strategies were cost-effective.
Starting age had a great impact on results in all studied groups. Initiating
glaucoma therapy using laser or surgery were more cost-effective, the younger the
patient.
CONCLUSION: All tested treatment strategies for glaucoma provided real gains in
quality of life and were cost-effective. However, according to the disease
severity, not all strategies provided the same cost-effectiveness profile. Based 
on our findings, there should be a preferred strategy for each glaucoma stage,
according to a cost-effectiveness ratio ranking.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005745 
PMID: 28033286  [PubMed - in process]


39. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Dec;95(52):e5704. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005704.

Associations of sleep duration with open angle glaucoma in the Korea national
health and nutrition examination survey.

Lee JA(1), Han K, Min JA, Choi JA; Epidemiologic Survey Committee of the Korean
Ophthalmological Society.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Ophthalmology, St. Vincent's Hospital bDepartment of
Biostatistics cDepartment of Psychiatry, Incheon St. Mary's Hospital, College of 
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Suwon, Kyunggi-do, Korea.

The aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between sleep duration
and glaucoma, stratified by obesity status.This study was conducted using data
from the Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey V 2010 to 2012. 
Open-angle glaucoma was diagnosed according to the International Society of
Geographical and Epidemiological Ophthalmology criteria. Subjects were divided
into subgroups based on those who were overweight (body mass index ≥25 kg/m or
<25 kg/m) or with abdominal obesity (based on waist circumference). Multiple
logistic regression analysis was done to estimate the magnitude of the
association between sleep duration (<7 h, 7-<9, or ≥9 hours) and prevalence of
glaucoma in the total population and in the subgroups.Individuals who slept
<5 hours per night had the highest prevalence of glaucoma (5.55 ± 1.09%),
followed by those who slept ≥9 hours per night (4.56 ± 0.10%), and then by those 
who slept 5 to <6 hours per night (4.15 ± 0.68%), which revealed a U-shaped
pattern (P for trend = 0.072). Among overweight individuals, subjects who slept
<7 hours and those who slept ≥9 hours were significantly more likely to have
glaucoma compared with subjects who slept 7 to <9 hours after adjusting for
survey year, age, sex, smoking, drinking, exercise, education level, household
income, hypertension, intraocular pressure, stress, and depression (odds ratio,
2.41; 95% confidence interval, 1.14-5.03). Unlike for overweight individuals,
sleep duration in nonoverweight individuals was not statistically significantly
associated with glaucoma.Our results reveal a U-shaped association between sleep 
duration and the prevalence of glaucoma. An effect of sleep duration on glaucoma 
was present in the subgroup of overweight patients.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005704 
PMID: 28033268  [PubMed - in process]


40. Retin Cases Brief Rep. 2016 Dec 28. doi: 10.1097/ICB.0000000000000513. [Epub
ahead of print]

ANTERIOR LENS CAPSULE IN THE MANAGEMENT OF CHRONIC FULL-THICKNESS MACULAR HOLE.

Yepez JB(1), Murati FA, De Yepez J, Petitto M, Arevalo JF.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Vitreoretinal Surgery, Clinica de Ojos, Maracaibo, Venezuela;
†Department of Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus, Clinica de Ojos,
Maracaibo, Venezuela; ‡Department of Glaucoma, Clinica de Ojos, Maracaibo,
Venezuela; and §Division of Retina, Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

PURPOSE: To report the use of anterior lens capsule flap transplantation in two
cases with chronic full-thickness macular hole (MH).
METHODS: Case series.
RESULTS: Two cases of chronic MH with a new treatment approach were reported. In 
the first case, a 66-year-old man presented with a chronic idiopathic MH in the
left eye for 2 years. Presenting visual acuity was hand motion. The patient
underwent phacoemulsification and vitrectomy with anterior lens capsule flap
transplantation in the MH. At 5 months postoperatively, the visual acuity was
20/200 with MH closure. In the second case, a 68-year-old woman presented with
decreased visual acuity for 2 years. Her visual acuity was hand motion in the
right eye. The patient underwent phacoemulsification and vitrectomy with anterior
lens capsule flap transplantation in the MH. Visual acuity improved to 20/400
with reduction in the MH diameter. Vision and MH diameter remained stable over 5 
months postoperatively.
CONCLUSION: Lens capsular flap transplantation is useful in closing chronic MH in
the short term.

DOI: 10.1097/ICB.0000000000000513 
PMID: 28033231  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


41. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2016 Dec 29:1-7. doi: 10.1080/09286586.2016.1258082. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Nerve Fiber Layer Thickness and Characteristics Associated with Glaucoma in
Community Living Older Adults: Prelude to a Screening Trial?

Klein BE(1), Johnson CA(2,)(3), Meuer SM(1), Lee K(4,)(5), Wahle A(4,)(5), Lee
KE(1), Kulkarni A(1), Sonka M(3,)(4,)(5), Abràmoff MD(4,)(6,)(7), Klein R(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences , University of Wisconsin
School of Medicine and Public Health , Madison , WI , USA. (2)b University of
Iowa Hospitals and Clinics , Iowa City , IA , USA. (3)c Department of
Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences , University of Iowa , Iowa City , IA , USA.
(4)d Electrical and Computer Engineering , University of Iowa , Iowa City , IA , 
USA. (5)e Iowa Institute for Biomedical Imaging , University of Iowa , Iowa City 
, IA , USA. (6)f Biomedical Engineering , University of Iowa , Iowa City , IA ,
USA. (7)g VA Medical Center , Iowa City , IA , USA.

PURPOSE: To examine the associations of nerve fiber layer (NFL) thickness with
other ocular characteristics in older adults.
METHODS: Participants in the Beaver Dam Eye Study (2008-2010) underwent spectral 
domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) scans of the optic nerve head,
imaging of optic discs, frequency doubling technology (FDT) perimetry,
measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP), and an interview concerning their
history of glaucoma and use of drops to lower eye pressure. Self-reported
histories of glaucoma and the use of drops to lower eye pressure were obtained at
follow-up examinations (2014-2016).
RESULTS: NFL thickness measured on OCTs varied by location around the optic
nerve. Age was associated with mean NFL thickness. Mean NFL was thinnest in eyes 
with larger cup/disc (C/D) ratios. Horizontal hemifield defects or other optic
nerve-field defects were associated with thinner NFL. NFL in persons who reported
taking eye drops for high intraocular pressure was thinner compared to those not 
taking drops. After accounting for the presence of high intraocular pressure,
large C/D ratios or hemifield defects, eyes with thinner NFL in the arcades were 
more likely (OR = 2.3 for 30 micron thinner NFL, p = 0.04) to have incident
glaucoma at examination 5 years later.
CONCLUSION: Retinal NFL thickness was associated with a new history of
self-reported glaucoma 5 years later. A trial testing the usefulness of NFL as
part of a screening battery for predicting glaucoma in those previously
undiagnosed might lead to improved case finding and, ultimately, to diminishing
the risk of visual field loss.

DOI: 10.1080/09286586.2016.1258082 
PMID: 28032805  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


42. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt. 2017 Jan;37(1):113. doi: 10.1111/opo.12336.

Evidence for Scottish General Ophthalmic Services improving true-positive
referral rate for Glaucoma.

Henderson R(1).

Author information: 
(1)WJ Henderson Optometrist, Perth, Scotland.

DOI: 10.1111/opo.12336 
PMID: 28030878  [PubMed - in process]


43. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 28;11(12):e0168765. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168765.
eCollection 2016.

Silibinin Inhibits Platelet-Derived Growth Factor-Driven Cell Proliferation via
Downregulation of N-Glycosylation in Human Tenon's Fibroblasts in a
Proteasome-Dependent Manner.

Chen YH(1,)(2), Chen CL(1,)(2), Lu DW(1,)(2), Liang CM(1,)(2), Tai MC(1,)(2),
Chen JT(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Institute of Medical Science, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei, Taiwan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Tri-Service General Hospital,
National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.

The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of silibinin on cell
proliferation in platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-treated human Tenon's
fibroblasts (HTFs). The effect of silibinin on cell proliferation in PDGF-treated
HTFs was determined by examining the expression of proliferating cell nuclear
antigen (PCNA) and performing WST-1 assays. Cell cycle progression was evaluated 
using flow cytometry. The related cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs)
were also analyzed using western blot. A modified rat trabeculectomy model was
established to evaluate the effect of silibinin on cell proliferation in vivo.
Western blot analysis was carried out to determine the effect of silibinin on the
expression of PDGF receptor and on the downstream signaling pathways regulated by
PDGF receptor. PDGF elevated the expression of PCNA in HTFs, and this elevation
was inhibited by silibinin. The inhibitory effect of silibinin on cell
proliferation was also confirmed via WST-1 assay. PDGF-stimulated cell cycle in
HTFs was delayed by silibinin, and the related cyclin D1 and CDK4 were also
suppressed by silibinin. In the rat model of trabeculectomy, silibinin reduced
the expression of PCNA at the site of blebs in vivo. The effects of silibinin on 
PDGF-stimulated HTFs were mediated via the downregulation of PDGF
receptor-regulated signaling pathways, such as ERKs and STATs, which may be
partially caused by the downregulation of N-glycosylation of PDGF receptor beta
(PDGFRβ). The effect of silibinin on modulation of N-glycosylation of PDGFRβ was 
mediated in a proteasome-dependent manner. Silibinin inhibited cell proliferation
and delayed cell cycle progression in PDGF-treated HTFs in vitro. PDGF also
modulated the process of N-glycosylation of the PDGFRβ in a proteasome-dependent 
manner. Our findings suggest that silibinin has potential therapeutic
applications in glaucoma filtering surgery.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168765 
PMID: 28030611  [PubMed - in process]


44. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 28;11(12):e0166813. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166813.
eCollection 2016.

Longitudinal Analysis of Serum Autoantibody-Reactivities in Patients with Primary
Open Angle Glaucoma and Optic Disc Hemorrhage.

Lorenz K(1), Beck S(1,)(2), Keilani MM(1,)(3), Wasielica-Poslednik J(1), Pfeiffer
N(1), Grus FH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University Medical Center, Johannes 
Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany. (2)Department of Pharmacy and Biochemistry,
Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz, Germany. (3)Vision 100 Die Augenärzte,
Gemeinschaftspraxis Mönchengladbach, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The aim of our current investigation was to analyze the
autoantibody-reactivities of primary open angle glaucoma patients with optic disc
hemorrhage as possibly correlated to disease progression by means of a protein
microarray approach.
METHODS: Sera of patients with primary open angle glaucoma and optic disc
hemorrhage (n = 16) were collected directly after study inclusion (0 weeks) and
after 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 12 weeks. As a control group patients with primary
open angle glaucoma (n = 18) were used (0 weeks and 12 weeks). Microarrays were
incubated and occurring antibody-antigen-reactions were visualized with
fluorescence labeled anti-human-IgG secondary antibodies. To detect changes in
autoantibodies spot intensities were digitized and compared.
RESULTS: With respect to the immunoreactivity at 0 weeks level increment of
anti-adaptor protein 1 complex subunit mu-1 antibodies and anti-SPRY
domain-containing SOCS box protein 3 antibodies in sera of primary open angle
patients with optic disc hemorrhage was detected. Linear trend analysis revealed 
a positive correlation with r ≥ 0.8 between antibody-level and time course.
Control group show no relevant changes in the same period. Significant changes
were found in time point 4 comparison between patient groups in anti-adaptor
protein 1 complex subunit mu-1-level (p = 0.01). No significant changes in visual
acuity were found.
CONCLUSION: With this approach we were able to detect autoimmune reactivities in 
sera of patients with primary open angle glaucoma and optic disc hemorrhage
compared to patients without optic disc hemorrhage. These antibodies could give
further insights into the pathogenesis and the autoimmune component of
glaucomatous optic neuropathy.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166813 
PMID: 28030545  [PubMed - in process]


45. Med Sci Monit. 2016 Dec 28;22:5181-5189.

Effect of Refractive Correction Error on Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Thickness: A
Spectralis Optical Coherence Tomography Study.

Ma X(1), Chen Y(1), Liu X(1), Ning H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The First Hospital of China Medical University,
Shenyang, Liaoning, China (mainland).

BACKGROUND Identifying and assessing retinal nerve fiber layer defects are
important for diagnosing and managing glaucoma. We aimed to investigate the
effect of refractive correction error on retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL)
thickness measured with Spectralis spectral-domain optical coherence tomography
(SD-OCT). MATERIAL AND METHODS We included 68 participants: 32 healthy (normal)
and 36 glaucoma patients. RNFL thickness was measured using Spectralis SD-OCT
circular scan. Measurements were made with a refractive correction of the
spherical equivalent (SE), the SE+2.00D and the SE-2.00D. RESULTS Average RNFL
thickness was significantly higher in the normal group (105.88±10.47 μm) than in 
the glaucoma group (67.67±17.27 μm, P<0.001). In the normal group, +2.00D of
refractive correction error significantly affected measurements of average
(P<0.001) and inferior quadrant (P=0.037) RNFL thickness. In the glaucoma group, 
+2.00D of refractive correction error significantly increased average (P<0.001)
and individual quadrant (superior: P=0.016; temporal: P=0.004; inferior: P=0.008;
nasal: P=0.003) RNFL measurements compared with those made with the proper
refractive correction. However, -2.00D of refractive correction error did not
significantly affect RNFL thickness measurements in either group. CONCLUSIONS
Positive defocus error significantly affects RNFL thickness measurements made by 
the Spectralis SD-OCT. Negative defocus error did not affect RNFL measurement
examined. Careful correction of refractive error is necessary to obtain accurate 
baseline and follow-up RNFL thickness measurements in healthy and glaucomatous
eyes.


PMID: 28030536  [PubMed - in process]


46. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 28. doi: 10.1111/aos.13349. [Epub ahead of print]

Managing glaucoma drainage device tube leak with cyanoacrylate.

Kusabara AA(1), Kasahara N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Santa Casa de São Paulo School of Medical Sciences, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13349 
PMID: 28029228  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


47. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2016 Sep-Oct;25(5):937-944. doi: 10.17219/acem/62142.

Comparison of Visual Field Measurement with Heidelberg Edge Perimeter and
Humphrey Visual Field Analyzer in Patients with Ocular Hypertension.

Kaczorowski K(1), Mulak M(1), Szumny D(2,)(3), Baranowska M(4),
Jakubaszko-Jabłońska J(2), Misiuk-Hojło M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Wroclaw Medical University, Poland. (2)Department
of Ophthalmology, University Hospital, Wrocław, Poland. (3)Department of
Pharmacology, Wroclaw Medical University, Poland. (4)Institute of Physics,
Wroclaw University of Technology, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is a group of eye diseases which result in damage to the
optic nerve and vision loss. The most important examination in glaucoma patients 
is visual field assessment. One of the newer perimeters is Heidelberg Edge
Perimeter (HEP).
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to compare visual field measurements made
with Humphrey II 740 Visual Field (Carl Zeiss Meditec) and Heidelberg Edge
Perimeter (HEP) (Heidelberg Engineering). FDF stimulus (flicker defined form) in 
HEP stimulates magnocellular retinal cells, which are the first to be damaged in 
the early stage of glaucoma. Even a small loss of magnocellular cells may
influence HEP visual field.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The observed group consisted of 45 patients (82 eyes), age 
60 ± 9.8 years, glaucoma suspects, not treated pharmacologically or surgically
before, with intraocular pressure ≥ 22 mm Hg. Visual field values were measured
with two different devices: Humphrey II 740 Visual Field (Carl Zeiss Meditec,
Jena, Germany) and Heidelberg Edge Perimeter (Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg,
Germany). The patients were divided into two groups: Group 1 - tested with SITA
Standard program on Humphrey perimeter and ASTA Standard HEP, and Group 2 -
tested with SITA Fast program on Humphrey perimeter and ASTA Standard on HEP.
RESULTS: Few positive ΔMD results (ΔMD = MD HEP - MD HUM) were obtained in Groups
1 and 2, which means that the deviation value on the HEP perimeter was only
slightly higher than the mean deviation value on Humphrey. Therefore, one can
conclude that HEP perimeter may detect visual field defects with greater
precision. The visual field measurements between ASTA Standard on HEP and SITA
Standard on Humphrey as well as ASTA Standard on HEP and SITA Fast on Humphrey
are not equal: MD values on HEP perimeter are lower than MD on Humphrey, which
can mean that HEP perimeter provides more precise results and shows even early
visual field lesions.
CONCLUSIONS: HEP perimeter measures visual field defects with greater precision
so it should be taken into consideration for earlier glaucoma detection in
routine ophthalmological diagnosis.


PMID: 28028959  [PubMed - in process]


48. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Dec 27. pii: 201606387. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606387114. [Epub ahead of print]

Achromatopsia mutations target sequential steps of ATF6 activation.

Chiang WC(1), Chan P(1), Wissinger B(2), Vincent A(3), Skorczyk-Werner A(4),
Krawczyński MR(4,)(5), Kaufman RJ(6), Tsang SH(7,)(8,)(9), Héon E(3), Kohl S(2), 
Lin JH(10,)(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA
92093. (2)Institute for Ophthalmic Research, University of Tubingen, D-72076
Tubingen, Germany. (3)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, University
of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada M5T 3A9. (4)Department of Medical Genetics,
Poznan University of Medical Sciences, 60-806, Poznan, Poland. (5)Center for
Medical Genetics GENESIS, 60-601, Poznan, Poland. (6)Degenerative Diseases
Program, Sanford-Burnham-Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037. 
(7)Jonas Children's Vision Care and Bernard & Shirlee Brown Glaucoma Laboratory, 
Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032.
(8)Edward S. Harkness Eye Institute, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY
10032. (9)Departments of Ophthalmology, Pathology & Cell Biology, Institute of
Human Nutrition, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New
York, NY 10032. (10)Department of Pathology, University of California, San Diego,
La Jolla, CA 92093; JLin@ucsd.edu. (11)VA San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego,
CA 92161.

Achromatopsia is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by cone
photoreceptor dysfunction. We recently identified activating transcription factor
6 (ATF6) as a genetic cause of achromatopsia. ATF6 is a key regulator of the
unfolded protein response. In response to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, ATF6
migrates from the ER to Golgi to undergo regulated intramembrane proteolysis to
release a cytosolic domain containing a basic leucine zipper (bZIP)
transcriptional activator. The cleaved ATF6 fragment migrates to the nucleus to
transcriptionally up-regulate protein-folding enzymes and chaperones. ATF6
mutations in patients with achromatopsia include missense, nonsense, splice site,
and single-nucleotide deletion or duplication changes found across the entire
gene. Here, we comprehensively tested the function of achromatopsia-associated
ATF6 mutations and found that they group into three distinct molecular
pathomechanisms: class 1 ATF6 mutants show impaired ER-to-Golgi trafficking and
diminished regulated intramembrane proteolysis and transcriptional activity;
class 2 ATF6 mutants bear the entire ATF6 cytosolic domain with fully intact
transcriptional activity and constitutive induction of downstream target genes,
even in the absence of ER stress; and class 3 ATF6 mutants have complete loss of 
transcriptional activity because of absent or defective bZIP domains. Primary
fibroblasts from patients with class 1 or class 3 ATF6 mutations show increased
cell death in response to ER stress. Our findings reveal that human ATF6
mutations interrupt distinct sequential steps of the ATF6 activation mechanism.
We suggest that increased susceptibility to ER stress-induced damage during
retinal development underlies the pathology of achromatopsia in patients with
ATF6 mutations.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606387114 
PMID: 28028229  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


49. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2016 Dec 24. pii: S1350-9462(16)30094-5. doi:
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.12.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Aqueous outflow - A continuum from trabecular meshwork to episcleral veins.

Carreon T(1), van der Merwe E(2), Fellman RL(3), Johnstone M(4), Bhattacharya
SK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of
Miami, Miami, USA; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University
of Miami, Miami, USA. (2)Department of Human Biology, Faculty of Health Sciences,
University of Cape Town, Anzio Road, Observatory, 7925 Cape Town, South Africa.
(3)Glaucoma Associates of Texas, Dallas, TX, USA. (4)Department of Ophthalmology,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. (5)Department of Ophthalmology &
Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami, Miami, USA; Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Miami, Miami, USA. Electronic
address: sbhattacharya@med.miami.edu.

In glaucoma, lowered intraocular pressure (IOP) confers neuroprotection. Elevated
IOP characterizes glaucoma and arises from impaired aqueous humor (AH) outflow.
Increased resistance in the trabecular meshwork (TM), a filter-like structure
essential to regulate AH outflow, may result in the impaired outflow. Flow
through the 360° circumference of TM structures may be non-uniform, divided into 
high and low flow regions, termed as segmental. After flowing through the TM, AH 
enters Schlemm's canal (SC), which expresses both blood and lymphatic markers; AH
then passes into collector channel entrances (CCE) along the SC external well.
From the CCE, AH enters a deep scleral plexus (DSP) of vessels that typically run
parallel to SC. From the DSP, intrascleral collector vessels run radially to the 
scleral surface to connect with AH containing vessels called aqueous veins to
discharge AH to blood-containing episcleral veins. However, the molecular
mechanisms that maintain homeostatic properties of endothelial cells along the
pathways are not well understood. How these molecular events change during aging 
and in glaucoma pathology remain unresolved. In this review, we propose
mechanistic possibilities to explain the continuum of AH outflow control, which
originates at the TM and extends through collector channels to the episcleral
veins.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.12.004 
PMID: 28028002  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


50. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2016 Dec 18. pii: S0960-894X(16)31308-7. doi:
10.1016/j.bmcl.2016.12.041. [Epub ahead of print]

New furoxan derivatives for the treatment of ocular hypertension.

Blangetti M(1), Rolando B(1), Chegaev K(1), Guglielmo S(1), Lazzarato L(2),
Durante M(3), Masini E(3), Almirante N(4), Bastia E(4), Impagnatiello F(4),
Fruttero R(1), Gasco A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienza e Tecnologia del Farmaco - Università degli Studi di
Torino, Via P. Giuria 9, 10125 Turin, Italy. (2)Dipartimento di Scienza e
Tecnologia del Farmaco - Università degli Studi di Torino, Via P. Giuria 9, 10125
Turin, Italy. Electronic address: loretta.lazzarato@unito.it. (3)Dipartimento di 
Neuroscienze, Area del Farmaco e Salute del Bambino (NEUROFARBA) - Università di 
Firenze, Viale Pieraccini 6, 50139 Firenze (FI), Italy. (4)Nicox Research
Institute, S.r.l., Via Ludovico Ariosto 21, 20091 Bresso (MI), Italy.

A small series of water-soluble NO-donor furoxans bearing a basic center at the
4-position, having a wide lipophilic-hydrophilic balance range, and endowed with 
different NO-release capacities, were synthesized and characterized. Selected
members were studied for their IOP-lowering activity in the transient ocular
hypertensive rabbit model at 1% dose. The most effective IOP-lowering products
were compounds 3 and 7, whose activity 60min after administration was similar to 
that of Timolol. Notably, 7 was characterized by a long-lasting action. The
IOP-lowering activity in this series of products appeared to be modulated by the 
lipophilic-hydrophilic balance rather than by the NO-donor capacity.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2016.12.041 
PMID: 28027869  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


51. Biomed Pharmacother. 2016 Dec 24;86:620-627. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2016.11.106.
[Epub ahead of print]

The arguments for and against cannabinoids application in glaucomatous
retinopathy.

Panahi Y(1), Manayi A(2), Nikan M(2), Vazirian M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Chemical Injuries Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (2)Medicinal Plants Research Center, Faculty of Pharmacy,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (3)Pharmacognosy Department,
Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Electronic address: Vazirian_m@sina.tums.ac.ir.

Glaucoma represents several optic neuropathies leading to irreversible blindness 
through progressive retinal ganglion cell (RGC) loss. Reduction of intraocular
pressure (IOP) is known as the only modifiable factor in the treatment of this
disorder. Application of exogenous cannabinoids to lower IOP has attracted
attention of scientists as potential agents for the treatment of glaucoma.
Accordingly, neuroprotective effect of these agents has been recently described
through modulation of endocannabinoid system in the eye. In the present work,
pertinent information regarding ocular endocannabinoid system, mechanism of
exogenous cannabinoids interaction with the ocular endocannabinoid system to
reduce IOP, and neuroprotection property of cannabinoids will be discussed
according to current scientific literature. In addition to experimental studies, 
bioavailability of cannabinoids, clinical surveys, and adverse effects of
application of cannabinoids in glaucoma will be reviewed.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2016.11.106 
PMID: 28027538  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


52. Hum Mol Genet. 2016 Dec 26. pii: ddw372. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddw372. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Transgenic TBK1 mice have features of normal tension glaucoma.

Fingert JH(1,)(2), Miller K(3,)(2), Hedberg-Buenz A(3,)(2,)(4), Roos BR(3,)(2),
Lewis CJ(3,)(2,)(4), Mullins RF(3,)(2), Anderson MG(3,)(2,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA john-fingert@uiowa.edu. (2)Stephen A. Wynn
Institute for Vision Research, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA. (4)Department of Molecular Physiology and
Biophysics, Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA
and. (5)VA Center for the Prevention and Treatment of Visual Loss, Iowa City VA
Health Care System, Iowa City, IA, USA.

Duplication of the TBK1 gene is associated with 1-2% of normal tension glaucoma, 
a common cause of vision loss and blindness that occurs without grossly abnormal 
intraocular pressure. We generated a transgenic mouse that has one copy of the
human TBK1 gene (native promoter and gene structure) incorporated into the mouse 
genome (Tg-TBK1). Expression of the TBK1 transgene in the retinae of these mice
was demonstrated by real-time PCR. Using immunohistochemistry TBK1 protein was
predominantly localized to the ganglion cell layer of the retina, the cell type
most affected by glaucoma. More intense TBK1 labelling was detected in the
retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) of Tg-TBK1 mice than in wild-type littermates.
Tg-TBK1 mice exhibit the cardinal sign of glaucoma, a progressive loss of RGCs.
Hemizygous Tg-TBK1 mice (with one TBK1 transgene per genome) had a 13% loss of
RGCs by 18 months of age (P = 1.5 × 10(-8)). Homozygous Tg-TBK1 mice had 7.6%
fewer RGCs than hemizygous Tg-TBK1 mice and 20% fewer RGCs than wild-type mice
(P = 1.9 × 10(-5)) at 6 months of age. No difference in intraocular pressures was
detected between Tg-TBK1 mice and wild-type littermates as they aged (P > 0.05). 
Tg-TBK1 mice with extra doses of the TBK1 gene recapitulate the phenotype of
normal tension glaucoma in human patients with a TBK1 gene duplication. Together,
these studies confirm the pathogenicity of the TBK1 gene duplication in human
glaucoma and suggest that excess production of TBK1 kinase may have a role in the
pathology of glaucoma.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddw372 
PMID: 28025332  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


53. Biomed Opt Express. 2016 Nov 23;7(12):5252-5267. doi: 10.1364/BOE.7.005252.
eCollection 2016.

Multimodal registration of SD-OCT volumes and fundus photographs using histograms
of oriented gradients.

Miri MS(1), Abràmoff MD(2), Kwon YH(3), Garvin MK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, The University of Iowa,
Iowa City, IA 52242, USA. (2)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA; Department of Ophthalmology and
Visual Sciences, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA; Iowa City VA
Health Care System, Iowa City, IA 52246, USA. (3)Department of Ophthalmology and 
Visual Sciences, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA. (4)Department 
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA
52242, USA; Iowa City VA Health Care System, Iowa City, IA 52246, USA.

With availability of different retinal imaging modalities such as fundus
photography and spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), having a
robust and accurate registration scheme to enable utilization of this
complementary information is beneficial. The few existing fundus-OCT registration
approaches contain a vessel segmentation step, as the retinal blood vessels are
the most dominant structures that are in common between the pair of images.
However, errors in the vessel segmentation from either modality may cause
corresponding errors in the registration. In this paper, we propose a
feature-based registration method for registering fundus photographs and SD-OCT
projection images that benefits from vasculature structural information without
requiring blood vessel segmentation. In particular, after a preprocessing step, a
set of control points (CPs) are identified by looking for the corners in the
images. Next, each CP is represented by a feature vector which encodes the local 
structural information via computing the histograms of oriented gradients (HOG)
from the neighborhood of each CP. The best matching CPs are identified by
calculating the distance of their corresponding feature vectors. After removing
the incorrect matches the best affine transform that registers fundus photographs
to SD-OCT projection images is computed using the random sample consensus
(RANSAC) method. The proposed method was tested on 44 pairs of fundus and SD-OCT 
projection images of glaucoma patients and the result showed that the proposed
method successfully registers the multimodal images and produced a registration
error of 25.34 ± 12.34 μm (0.84 ± 0.41 pixels).

DOI: 10.1364/BOE.7.005252 
PMCID: PMC5175567
PMID: 28018740  [PubMed]


54. Biomed Opt Express. 2016 Nov 23;7(12):5233-5251. doi: 10.1364/BOE.7.005233.
eCollection 2016.

Active-passive path-length encoded (APPLE) Doppler OCT.

Wartak A(1), Haindl R(1), Trasischker W(1), Baumann B(1), Pircher M(1),
Hitzenberger CK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering, Medical University of
Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 18-20 / 4L, 1090 Vienna, Austria.

We present a novel active-passive path-length encoded (APPLE) swept source
Doppler optical coherence tomography (DOCT) approach, enabling three-dimensional 
velocity vector reconstruction of moving particles without prior knowledge of the
orientation of motion. The developed APPLE DOCT setup allows for non-invasive
blood flow measurements in vivo and was primarily designed for quantitative human
ocular blood flow investigations. The system's performance was demonstrated by in
vitro flow phantom as well as in vivo retinal vessel bifurcation measurements.
Furthermore, total retinal blood flow - a biomarker aiding in diagnosis and
monitoring of major ocular diseases such as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or
central/branch retinal vein occlusion - was determined in the eyes of healthy
human volunteers.

DOI: 10.1364/BOE.7.005233 
PMCID: PMC5175566
PMID: 28018739  [PubMed]


55. Hum Genome Var. 2016 Dec 8;3:16042. doi: 10.1038/hgv.2016.42. eCollection 2016.

Digenic mutations of human OCRL paralogs in Dent's disease type 2 associated with
Chiari I malformation.

Duran D(1), Jin SC(2), DeSpenza T Jr(1), Nelson-Williams C(3), Cogal AG(4),
Abrash EW(4), Harris PC(5), Lieske JC(6), Shimshak SJ(1), Mane S(7), Bilguvar
K(7), DiLuna ML(1), Günel M(8), Lifton RP(9), Kahle KT(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale School of Medicine , New Haven, CT, USA.
(2)Department of Genetics, Yale School of Medicine , New Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Department of Genetics, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA; Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, MD, USA. (4)Division of Nephrology and
Hypertension, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine , Rochester, MN, USA. (5)Division
of Nephrology and Hypertension, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN,
USA; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Mayo Clinic College of
Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA. (6)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Mayo
Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA; O'Brien Urology Research Center, 
Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA; Department of Laboratory
Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA.
(7)Yale Center for Genome Analysis, Yale School of Medicine, Yale University ,
New Haven, CT, USA. (8)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale School of Medicine, New
Haven, CT, USA; Department of Genetics, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT,
USA. (9)Howard Hughes Medical Institute , Chevy Chase, MD, USA. (10)Department of
Neurosurgery, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA; Department of
Pediatrics, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA; Department of Cellular &
Molecular Physiology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.

OCRL1 and its paralog INPP5B encode phosphatidylinositol 5-phosphatases that
localize to the primary cilium and have roles in ciliogenesis. Mutations in OCRL1
cause the X-linked Dent disease type 2 (DD2; OMIM# 300555), characterized by
low-molecular weight proteinuria, hypercalciuria, and the variable presence of
cataracts, glaucoma and intellectual disability without structural brain
anomalies. Disease-causing mutations in INPP5B have not been described in humans.
Here, we report the case of an 11-year-old boy with short stature and an
above-average IQ; severe proteinuria, hypercalciuria and osteopenia resulting in 
a vertebral compression fracture; and Chiari I malformation with cervico-thoracic
syringohydromyelia requiring suboccipital decompression. Sequencing revealed a
novel, de novo DD2-causing 462 bp deletion disrupting exon 3 of OCRL1 and a
maternally inherited, extremely rare (ExAC allele frequency 8.4×10(-6)) damaging 
missense mutation in INPP5B (p.A51V). This mutation substitutes an evolutionarily
conserved amino acid in the protein's critical PH domain. In silico analyses of
mutation impact predicted by SIFT, PolyPhen2, MetaSVM and CADD algorithms were
all highly deleterious. Together, our findings report a novel association of DD2 
with Chiari I malformation and syringohydromyelia, and document the effects of
digenic mutation of human OCRL paralogs. These findings lend genetic support to
the hypothesis that impaired ciliogenesis may contribute to the development of
Chiari I malformation, and implicates OCRL-dependent PIP3 metabolism in this
mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/hgv.2016.42 
PMCID: PMC5143364
PMID: 28018608  [PubMed]


56. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2016 Dec 22. pii: S0365-6691(16)30240-4. doi:
10.1016/j.oftal.2016.11.011. [Epub ahead of print]

Outcomes and complications after phacoemulsification in retinoblastoma patients
with cataract after radiation treatment.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Velásquez-Aguilar M(1), Matiz-Moreno H(2), Amato-Almanza M(1), Chen-López CY(2), 
Márquez-García G(2), Ramírez-Ortiz MA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Oftalmología, Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez, Ciudad
de México, México. (2)Instituto Oftalmológico Conde de Valenciana, Ciudad de
México, México. (3)Servicio de Oftalmología, Hospital Infantil de México Federico
Gómez, Ciudad de México, México. Electronic address: marco@unam.mx.

PURPOSE: To describe the visual outcome and complications associated with
phacoemulsification in patients with bilateral retinoblastoma (Rb), with lens
opacification secondary to external beam radiotherapy.
METHODS: A descriptive study was performed on patients with Rb, treated in
Federico Gomez Children's Hospital, Mexico, from January 1997 to August 2015,
with external beam radiotherapy eye salvaging. Statistical analysis was performed
using Stata 10.
RESULTS: A total of 15 patients were included. The mean age at
phacoemulsification was 7.5 years. Mean preoperative visual acuity was 1.0LogMAR 
(range 0.4-1.6), and the mean postoperative visual acuity was 0.7LogMAR (range
0.1-1.6). Twelve patients had visual improvement (P<.05). The visual acuity
decreased in one patient with vitreous haemorrhage and secondary glaucoma, and 2 
patients with exudative maculopathy secondary to radiation. Mean follow up was 46
months and not a single patient showed tumour re-activation.
CONCLUSIONS: Cataract surgery produces a statistically significant improvement in
visual acuity. These patients have increased risk for eye complications in the
mid- and long-term. It is important to conduct a close follow up due to
reactivation of tumour.

Copyright © 2016 Sociedad Española de Oftalmología. Publicado por Elsevier
España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oftal.2016.11.011 
PMID: 28017486  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


57. Ophthalmology. 2016 Dec 22. pii: S0161-6420(16)32118-2. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.11.032. [Epub ahead of print]

Quantifying Fall-Related Hazards in the Homes of Persons with Glaucoma.

Yonge AV(1), Swenor BK(1), Miller R(1), Goldhammer V(2), West SK(1), Friedman
DS(1), Gitlin LN(2), Ramulu PY(3).

Author information: 
(1)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland. (2)Center
for Innovative Care in Aging, School of Nursing, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Maryland. (3)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Maryland. Electronic address: pramulu@jhmi.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize fall-related hazards in the homes of persons with
suspected or diagnosed glaucoma, and to determine whether those with worse visual
field (VF) damage have fewer home hazards.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study using baseline (2013-2015) data from the ongoing
Falls in Glaucoma Study (FIGS).
PARTICIPANTS: One-hundred seventy-four of 245 (71.0%) FIGS participants agreeing 
to the home assessment.
METHODS: Participants' homes were assessed using the Home Environment Assessment 
for the Visually Impaired (HEAVI). A single evaluator assessed up to 127
potential hazards in 8 home regions. In the clinic, binocular contrast
sensitivity (CS) and better-eye visual acuity (VA) were evaluated, and 24-2 VFs
were obtained to calculate average integrated VF (IVF) sensitivity.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Total number of home hazards.
RESULTS: No significant visual or demographic differences were noted between
participants who did and did not complete the home assessment (P > 0.09 for all
measures). Mean age among those completing the home assessment (n = 174) was 71.1
years, and IVF sensitivity ranged from 5.6 to 33.4 dB (mean = 27.2 dB, standard
deviation [SD] = 4.0 dB). The mean number of items graded per home was 85.2 (SD =
13.2), and an average of 32.7 (38.3%) were identified as hazards. IVF
sensitivity, CS, and VA were not associated with total home hazards or the number
of hazards in any given room (P > 0.06 for all visual measures and rooms). The
bathroom contained the greatest number of hazards (mean = 7.9; 54.2% of graded
items classified as hazardous), and the most common hazards identified in at
least 1 room were ambient lighting <300 lux and exposed light bulbs. Only 27.9%
of graded rooms had adequate lighting. IVF sensitivity, CS, and VA were not
associated with home lighting levels (P > 0.18 for all), but brighter room
lighting was noted in the homes of participants with higher median income (P <
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Multiple home fall hazards were identified in the study population, 
and hazard numbers were not lower for persons with worse VF damage, suggesting
that individuals with more advanced glaucoma do not adapt their homes for safety.
Further work should investigate whether addressing home hazards is an effective
intervention for preventing falls in this high-risk group.

Copyright © 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.11.032 
PMID: 28017422  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


58. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 25. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12911. [Epub ahead of print]

Interaction of primary human trabecular meshwork cells with metal alloy
candidates for micro-invasive glaucoma surgery.

Wang WW(1), Watson KA(2), Dixon SJ(3,)(4), Liu H(5), Rizkalla A(4,)(6), Hutnik
CM(5,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry, Western University, London, ON,
Canada. (2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, London, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Western University, London, ON,
Canada. (4)Schulich Dentistry, Western University, London, ON, Canada.
(5)Departments of Ophthalmology and Pathology, Western University, London, ON,
Canada. (6)Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering, Western
University, London, ON, Canada. (7)Ivey Eye Institute, St. Joseph's Hospital,
London, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Microinvasive glaucoma surgery (MIGS) is a relatively new addition to
the glaucoma treatment paradigm. Small metallic stents are inserted into the
trabecular meshwork in order to increase aqueous humour drainage. MIGS procedures
are rapidly being adopted due to a more favourable side effect profile when
compared to traditional surgery. Remarkably, this rapid rate of utilization has
occurred without any published studies on the effect of metal alloys used in
these stents on human trabecular meshwork cells (HTMCs). Therefore, this study
aimed to determine the effect of candidate metal alloys for micro-invasive
glaucoma surgery on HTMC morphology, viability, and function.
METHODS: HTMCs were cultured on the surfaces of titanium (polished and
sandblasted), a titanium-nickel (nitinol) alloy, and glass (as control
substratum). Fluorescence imaging was used to assess cell morphology and
spreading. A lactate dehydrogenase cytotoxicity assay, cell death detection
ELISA, MTT cell viability assay, BrdU cell proliferation assay, and fibronectin
ELISA were also conducted.
RESULTS: Cells cultured on sandblasted titanium exhibited significantly greater
spreading than cells cultured on other substrata. In comparison, HTMCs cultured
on nitinol displayed poor spreading. Significantly more cell death, by both
necrosis and apoptosis, occurred on nitinol than on titanium and glass. Also,
cell viability and proliferation were suppressed on nitinol compared to titanium 
or glass. Finally, HTMCs on both titanium and nitinol produced greater amounts of
fibronectin than cells grown on glass.
CONCLUSIONS: Substratum topography and metal alloy composition were found to
impact morphology, viability, and function of primary HTMC cultures.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12911 
PMID: 28013525  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


59. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2016 Dec 22. pii: S1350-9462(16)30070-2. doi:
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.12.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Improving our understanding, and detection, of glaucomatous damage: An approach
based upon optical coherence tomography (OCT).

Hood DC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychology and Ophthalmology, Columbia University, New York, NY
10027-7004, USA. Electronic address: dch3@columbia.edu.

Although ophthalmologists are becoming increasingly reliant upon optical
coherence tomography (OCT), clinicians who care for glaucoma patients are not
taking full advantage of the potential of this powerful technology. First, we
ask, how would one describe the nature of glaucomatous damage if only OCT scans
were available? In particular, a schematic model of glaucomatous damage is
developed in section 2, and the nature of glaucomatous damage seen on OCT scans
described in the context of this model in section 3. In particular, we illustrate
that local thinning of the circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (cpRNFL)
around the optic disc can vary in location, depth, and/or width, as well as
homogeneity of damage. Second, we seek to better understand the relationship
between the thinning of the cpRNFL and the various patterns of sensitivity loss
seen on visual fields obtained with standard automated perimetry. In sections 4
and 5, we illustrate why one should expect a wide range of visual field patterns,
and iilustrate why they should not be placed into discrete categories. Finally,
section 6 describes how the clinician can take better advantage of the
information in OCT scans. The approach is summarized in a single-page report,
which can be generated from a single wide-field scan. The superiority of this
approach, as opposed to the typical reliance on summary metrics, is described.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.12.002 
PMID: 28012881  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


60. Surv Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 21. pii: S0039-6257(16)30108-4. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2016.12.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Posner-Schlossman Syndrome.

Megaw R(1), Agarwal PK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Genetics Unit, Institute of Genetics and
Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, United Kingdom;
Princess Alexandra Eye Pavilion, Chalmers Street, Edinburgh, EH3 9HA, United
Kingdom. Electronic address: roly.megaw@ed.ac.uk. (2)Princess Alexandra Eye
Pavilion, Chalmers Street, Edinburgh, EH3 9HA, United Kingdom.

Posner-Schlossman syndrome (PSS), or glaucomatocyclitic crisis, is a unilateral
ocular condition characterized by recurrent attacks of non-granulomatous anterior
uveitis and raised intraocular pressure that can result in chronic secondary
glaucoma. This relatively rare disease is most likely the result of recurrent
cytomegalovirus infection and affects predominantly middle-aged males . Diagnosis
is largely clinical, with aqueous and blood sampling aiding the identification of
any underlying infectious cause. Successful disease management is often achieved 
by topical treatment, although systemic therapy and even surgical intervention
may be required. We discuss our current understanding of PSS, from its
pathophysiology through to recommended treatment options.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2016.12.005 
PMID: 28012873  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


61. Am J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 21. pii: S0002-9394(16)30595-5. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2016.11.020. [Epub ahead of print]

Bimatoprost Sustained-Release Implants for Glaucoma Therapy: 6-Month Results from
a Phase I/II Clinical Trial.

Lewis RA(1), Christie WC(2), Day DG(3), Craven ER(4), Walters T(5), Bejanian
M(6), Lee SS(6), Goodkin ML(6), Zhang J(7), Whitcup SM(6), Robinson MR(6);
Bimatoprost SR Study Group.

Collaborators: Aung T, Beck AD, Christie WC, Coote M, Crane CJ, Craven ER,
Crichton A, Day DG, Durcan FJ, Flynn WJ, Gagné S, Goldberg DF, Jinapriya D,
Johnson CS, Kurtz S, Lewis RA, Mansberger SL, Perera SA, Rotberg MH, Saltzmann
RM, Schenker HI, Tepedino ME, Yap-Veloso MI, Uy HS, Walters TR.

Author information: 
(1)Sacramento Eye Consultants, Sacramento, CA. Electronic address:
rlewiseyemd@yahoo.com. (2)Scott & Christie and Associates, Pittsburgh, PA.
(3)Coastal Research Associates, Roswell, GA. (4)Wilmer Eye Institute, Baltimore, 
MD; King Khaled Eye Specialists Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. (5)Keystone
Research, Ltd, Austin, TX. (6)Allergan plc, Irvine, CA. (7)Allergan plc,
Bridgewater, NJ.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the safety and intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering effect of
a biodegradable bimatoprost sustained-release implant (Bimatoprost SR).
DESIGN: Phase I/II, prospective, 24-month, dose-ranging, paired-eye controlled
clinical trial.
METHODS: At baseline following washout, open-angle glaucoma patients (n=75) were 
administered Bimatoprost SR (6-μg, 10-μg, 15-μg, or 20-μg) intracamerally in the 
study eye; the fellow eye began topical bimatoprost 0.03% QD. Rescue topical
IOP-lowering medication or a single repeat treatment with implant was allowed.
The primary endpoint was IOP change from baseline. The main safety measure was
adverse events. Results through month 6 are reported.
RESULTS: Bimatoprost SR provided rapid, sustained IOP lowering. Overall mean IOP 
reduction from baseline through week 16 in study eyes was 7.2, 7.4, 8.1, and 9.5 
mm Hg with the 6-μg, 10-μg, 15-μg, and 20-μg dose strengths of implant,
respectively, versus 8.4 mm Hg in topical bimatoprost-treated pooled fellow eyes 
(data censored at rescue/retreatment). Rescue/retreatment was not required in 91%
and 71% of study eyes up to week 16 and month 6, respectively. Adverse events in 
study eyes usually occurred within 2 days after the injection procedure and were 
transient. Conjunctival hyperemia with onset later than 2 days after the
injection procedure was more common with topical bimatoprost than Bimatoprost SR 
(17.3% vs. 6.7% of eyes).
CONCLUSIONS: Bimatoprost SR demonstrated favorable efficacy and safety through 6 
months. All dose strengths were comparable to topical bimatoprost in overall IOP 
reduction through week 16. A single administration controlled IOP in the majority
of patients for up to 6 months.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.11.020 
PMID: 28012819  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


62. Surv Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 20. pii: S0039-6257(15)30061-8. doi:
10.1016/j.survophthal.2016.12.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Aids for Eye Drop Administration.

Davies I(1), Williams AM(2), Muir KW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA. (3)Duke
University School of Medicine, Durham, NC; Durham VA Medical Center, Durham, NC. 
Electronic address: kelly.muir@duke.edu.

One aspect to eye drop adherence is successful instillation of the drops;
however, it is well known that many patients struggle with this task.
Difficulties may include aiming their drops, extending their neck, preventing
excess drop leakage, avoiding contamination of the bottle tip, and generating
enough force to expel a drop from the bottle. Instillation aids are devices that 
aim to ameliorate one or more of these barriers. We review the literature on
instillation aids in order to describe the options available to patients and to
report evaluations of their efficacy. The majority of instillation aids studied
improved objective or subjective outcomes of eye drop instillation, including
improved rates of successful administration and increased patient satisfaction
compared to standard eye drop bottles. Although further research is warranted,
instillation aids may be an underutilized resource for the many patients who
struggle to administer their own eye drops.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2016.12.009 
PMID: 28011246  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


63. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 23. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12909. [Epub ahead of print]

Prostaglandin use is associated with increased vascular endothelial growth factor
in the aqueous humor of glaucoma patients.

Kwon JW(1), Jee D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, St. Vincent's Hospital,
College of Medicine, Catholic University of Korea, Suwon, Korea.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12909 
PMID: 28009474  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


64. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2016 Dec;42(12):1768-1773. doi:
10.1016/j.jcrs.2016.09.021.

Comparison of the rate of refractive growth in aphakic eyes versus pseudophakic
eyes in the Infant Aphakia Treatment Study.

Lambert SR(1), Cotsonis G(2), DuBois L(2), Wilson ME(2), Plager DA(2), Buckley
EG(2), McClatchey SK(2); Infant Aphakia Treatment Study Group(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology (Lambert, DuBois) and the School of
Medicine and Biostatistics and Bioinformatics (Cotsonis), Rollins School of
Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, the Storm Eye Institute
(Wilson), Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina, Glick
Eye Institute (Plager), Indiana University, Indianapolis, Indiana, the Department
of Ophthalmology, (Buckley), Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, the
Department of Ophthalmology, Naval Medical Center, San Diego, and Loma Linda
University Medical Center (McClatchey), Loma Linda, California, and the Uniformed
Services University of Health Sciences (McClatchey), Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
Electronic address: lambert7@stanford.edu. (2)From the Department of
Ophthalmology (Lambert, DuBois) and the School of Medicine and Biostatistics and 
Bioinformatics (Cotsonis), Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University,
Atlanta, Georgia, the Storm Eye Institute (Wilson), Medical University of South
Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina, Glick Eye Institute (Plager), Indiana
University, Indianapolis, Indiana, the Department of Ophthalmology, (Buckley),
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, the Department of Ophthalmology, Naval
Medical Center, San Diego, and Loma Linda University Medical Center (McClatchey),
Loma Linda, California, and the Uniformed Services University of Health Sciences 
(McClatchey), Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare the rate of refractive growth (RRG) between aphakic eyes and 
pseudophakic eyes in the Infant Aphakia Treatment Study (IATS).
SETTING: Twelve clinical sites across the United States.
DESIGN: Randomized clinical trial.
METHODS: Patients randomized to unilateral cataract extraction with contact lens 
correction versus intraocular lens (IOL) implantation in the IATS had their rate 
of refractive growth (RRG3) calculated based on the change in refraction from the
1-month postoperative examination to age 5 years. The RRG3 is a logarithmic
formula designed to calculate the RRG in children. Two-group t tests were used to
compare the mean refractive growth between the contact lens group and IOL group
and outcomes based on age at surgery and visual acuity.
RESULTS: Longitudinal refractive data were studied for 108 of 114 patients
enrolled in the IATS (contact lens group, n = 54; IOL group, n = 54). The mean
RRG3 was similar in the contact lens group (-18.0 diopter [D] ± 11.0 [SD]) and
the IOL group (-19.0 ± 9.0 D) (P = .49). The RRG3 value was not correlated with
age at cataract surgery, glaucoma status, or visual outcome in the IOL group. In 
the aphakia group, only visual outcome was correlated with refractive growth
(P = .01).
CONCLUSIONS: Infants' eyes had a similar rate of refractive growth after
unilateral cataract surgery whether or not an IOL was implanted. A worse visual
outcome was associated with a higher RRG in aphakic, but not pseudophakic, eyes.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE: None of the authors has a financial or proprietary interest
in any material or method mentioned.

Copyright © 2016 ASCRS and ESCRS. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2016.09.021 
PMCID: PMC5189691 [Available on 2017-12-01]
PMID: 28007108  [PubMed - in process]


65. Biomed Pharmacother. 2016 Dec 19;86:232-241. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2016.11.141.
[Epub ahead of print]

A focus on resveratrol and ocular problems, especially cataract: From chemistry
to medical uses and clinical relevance.

Goutham G(1), Manikandan R(2), Beulaja M(3), Thiagarajan R(4), Arulvasu C(1),
Arumugam M(1), Setzer WN(5), Daglia M(6), Nabavi SF(7), Nabavi SM(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Madras, Guindy Campus, Chennai 600025,
India. (2)Department of Zoology, University of Madras, Guindy Campus, Chennai
600025, India. Electronic address: manikandanramar@yahoo.co.in. (3)Department of 
Biochemistry, Annai Veilakkannis College for Women, Chennai 60015, India.
(4)School of Chemical Science and Biotechnology, SASTRA University, Thanjavur,
India. Electronic address: thiagi200@yahoo.co.in. (5)Department of Chemistry,
University of Alabama in Huntsville, Huntsville, AL 35899, USA. (6)Department of 
Drug Sciences, Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Technology Section,
University of Pavia, Italy. (7)Applied Biotechnology Research Center,
Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (8)Applied
Biotechnology Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: Nabavi208@gmail.com.

Low vision and blindness are important health problems that affect millions of
people throughout the world. The most common and important pathologies are
diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, glaucoma as well as
cataracts. The latter consists of an opacification of the lens of the eye which
impedes the passage of light and represents one of the most important causes of
vision loss. Among the risk factors for cataract development, there are
life-style factors such as the use of tobacco, abuse of alcohol and unhealthy
diet. In light of this, dietary components that possess anti-oxidant activity,
such as polyphenols for instance, can be considered good candidates for human
studies in the prevention and or treatment of such diseases. Among dietary
components, the antioxidant capacity of certain polyphenols is well known, and
these could be good candidates. In this review we focus our attention on the
current scientific literature regarding to the effects of resveratrol on
cataracts and other ocular diseases, along with its potential mechanism/s of
action. A large number of preclinical studies support the involvement of
resveratrol in clinical trials for the prevention and treatment of eye diseases
induced by oxidative stress and inflammation, such as age-related cataract.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2016.11.141 
PMID: 28006748  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


66. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 22;11(12):e0168682. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168682.
eCollection 2016.

Albuminuria Is Associated with Open-Angle Glaucoma in Nondiabetic Korean
Subjects: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Kim GA(1), Park SH(2), Ko J(1), Lee SH(3), Bae HW(1), Seong GJ(1), Kim CY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology, Severance Hospital,
Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Division of Endocrinology
and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, Yonsei University College of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Eulji University,
Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVE: Systemic vascular dysfunction has been suggested to contribute to
glaucomatous damage. Albuminuria is a surrogate marker of endothelial injury,
including vessels. However, their relationship is not well understood. This study
aimed to investigate the association between albuminuria and the prevalence of
open-angle glaucoma (OAG) in nondiabetic subjects.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study of 4186 nondiabetic participants
aged 19 years or older from the 2011-2012 Korea National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey. OAG was defined based on the criteria of the International
Society for Geographic and Epidemiologic Ophthalmology. Urinary albumin excretion
was assessed by the urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR). A multivariate
logistic regression analysis was performed to evaluate the relationship between
albuminuria and OAG.
RESULTS: Among the subjects, 124 had OAG. The weighted prevalences of
microalbuminuria (UACR of 30-299 mg/g creatinine [Cr]) and macroalbuminuria (UACR
≥ 300 mg/g Cr) were 3.2 ± 0.3% and 0.4 ± 0.1%, respectively. The percentages of
OAG increased in accordance with increasing UACR tertiles. Compared with subjects
in the lower UACR tertile, those in the upper tertile showed an increased
prevalence of OAG (odds ratio, 1.963; 95% confidence interval 1.072-3.595, P =
0.029) after adjusting for demographic factors, laboratory parameters, kidney
function, and intraocular pressure. Furthermore, even after excluding 155
subjects with microalbuminuria and 19 subjects with macroalbuminuria, a positive 
association persisted between the upper UACR tertile (low-grade albuminuria) and 
an increased prevalence of OAG (odds ratio, 2.170; 95% confidence interval,
1.174-4.010, P = 0.014).
CONCLUSION: Albuminuria, even low-grade, was significantly associated with OAG in
nondiabetic subjects. This result implies the role of vascular endothelial
dysfunction in the pathogenic mechanism of OAG and suggests that careful
monitoring of OAG is required in nondiabetic subjects with albuminuria.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168682 
PMCID: PMC5179114
PMID: 28006020  [PubMed - in process]


67. J Craniofac Surg. 2016 Nov;27(8):e750-e752. doi: 10.1097/SCS.0000000000003098.

A Rare Patient With Orbital Apex Syndrome, Anterior Uveitis, and Necrotizing
Scleritis Due to Herpes Zoster Ophthalmicus.

Aydin E(1), Balikoglu-Yilmaz M, Imre SS, Koc F, Kazanci L, Ozturk AT.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine†Eye Clinic, Ataturk Training
and Research Hospital, Izmir Katip Celebi University‡Department of Ophthalmology,
Faculty of Medicine, Dokuz Eylul University, Izmir, Turkey.

The purpose of this study was to describe a patient of orbital apex syndrome,
anterior uveitis, secondary glaucoma, corneal dellen, and necrotizing scleritis
following an attack of herpes zoster ophthalmicus, and the placement of a
pericardial patch graft. A 64-year-old male patient with blepharoptosis of his
right eye and multiple vesicles on the forehead, nose and cheeks, limitation on
all gazes, blepharoptosis, and exophthalmia was eventually diagnosed with
ophthalmic zona with orbital apex syndrome. After the treatment with systemic
antiviral and steroid, there was complete recovery of the unilateral vesicular
eruption, ophthalmoplegia, and ptosis at the third month follow-up. However,
anterior uveitis, necrotizing scleritis, secondary glaucoma, and corneal dellen
developed during follow-up. At the ninth month, pericardial patch graft
(Tutoplast) was placed due to progression of the scleral thinning. Graft
vascularization was completed. Careful and long-term follow-up of patients with
ophthalmic zona is required for possible ophthalmic complications of varicella
zoster virus infections. A pericardial patch graft might be placed due to the
development of necrotizing scleritis.

DOI: 10.1097/SCS.0000000000003098 
PMID: 28005810  [PubMed - in process]


68. Sci Rep. 2016 Dec 22;6:38283. doi: 10.1038/srep38283.

Differential Association of Metabolic Risk Factors with Open Angle Glaucoma
according to Obesity in a Korean Population.

Kim HA(1), Han K(2), Lee YA(3), Choi JA(4), Park YM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of
Korea, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Biostatistics, College of Medicine, The
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Family Medicine, St.
Vincent's Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul,
Korea. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, St. Vincent's Hospital, College of
Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea. (5)Epidemiology Branch,
National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, National Institutes of
Health, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.

The associations of the metabolic syndrome (MetS) with intraocular pressure and
primary open angle glaucoma (OAG) have been reported. This study aimed to
determine whether a difference in association exists between OAG and metabolic
risk factors according to obesity status among Korean adults. A total of 8,816
participants (≥40 years) in the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination
Survey were classified into obese, body mass index (BMI) ≥ 25 kg/m(2) and
non-obese, BMI < 25 kg/m(2). The prevalence of MetS was 40.1% in non-obese OAG
and 66.0% in obese OAG. The prevalence of OAG increased with increasing number
components for MetS in total population and in non-obese subjects (P < 0.001,
respectively), while the prevalence of OAG was not associated with number of
components for MetS in obese subjects (P = 0.14). In non-obese individuals,
subjects with high triglycerides, high blood pressure (BP), and MetS were more
likely to have OAG compared with those without high triglycerides, high BP, and
MetS after adjusting for potential confounders. However, MetS or its components
exhibited no significant association with glaucoma status in obese individuals.
Our study provides understanding on the differences in association of OAG with
MetS and its components according to obesity status.

DOI: 10.1038/srep38283 
PMID: 28004731  [PubMed - in process]


69. Psychol Health. 2016 Dec 22:1-13. doi: 10.1080/08870446.2016.1268690. [Epub ahead
of print]

Psycho-ophthalmology: Contributions of Health psychology to the assessment and
treatment of glaucoma.

Méndez-Ulrich JL(1), Sanz A(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Faculty of Psychology, Research Group on Stress and Health, Department of
Basic, Developmental and Educational Psychology , Universitat Autònoma de
Barcelona , Catalonia , Spain.

BACKGROUND: Asymptomatic in its early stages, glaucoma is the second leading
cause of blindness worldwide. While psychosocial factors are taken into
consideration for a host of diseases such as cancer, heart disease and autoimmune
conditions, to date, psychological issues have been ignored in the clinical
management of glaucoma.
OBJECTIVE: This work reviews the most relevant contributions from a health
psychology perspective for the assessment and treatment of glaucoma, which is
emerging in the field of psycho-ophthalmology.
METHOD: To provide scientific evidence regarding contributions of psychology to
the comprehension of glaucoma, a bibliographic review of three databases
(Psicodoc, PsycInfo and Medline) was conducted, spanning the period between 1940 
and 2016.
RESULTS: This review yielded a total of 66 studies published in the period
analysed and identified three areas where health psychology has made substantive 
contributions to glaucoma screening, monitoring and treatment: the emotional
impact on patients suffering from glaucoma, the adherence to treatment and the
effects of stress on intraocular pressure.
CONCLUSIONS: A health psychology approach for research and therapy of glaucoma
must focus on the management of the negative affect associated with the
diagnosis, the optimisation of treatment adherence and the stress management of
the intraocular pressure measurements.

DOI: 10.1080/08870446.2016.1268690 
PMID: 28004586  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


70. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 21. doi: 10.1007/s00417-016-3569-6.
[Epub ahead of print]

Poor outcomes despite aspirin or statin use in high-risk patients with retinal
vein occlusion.

Matei VM(1), Xia JY(2), Nguyen C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
at Dallas, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd., Dallas, TX, 75390-9057, USA.
vlad.matei@phhs.org. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd., Dallas, TX,
75390-9057, USA.

PURPOSE: Since atherosclerosis contributes to the pathophysiology of retinal vein
occlusion (RVO), we aimed to assess the effects of aspirin and statins on the
visual outcomes of RVO in high-risk patients, whom we define to have hypertension
and open-angle glaucoma prior to RVO.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective case-control study of adults diagnosed with
RVO between 2006 and 2014. To evaluate for a preventive effect of these
medications, we compared the prevalence of aspirin or statin use (either
separately or concomitantly) among high-risk patients who developed RVO and among
those who did not during at least 2 years of follow-up. To evaluate for a
therapeutic effect, we then compared the final follow-up visual acuity (VA) of
high-risk RVO patients who had and who had not been taking a statin prior to the 
RVO.
RESULTS: We analyzed 43 eyes [23 central RVOs (CRVOs), 16 branch RVOs (BRVOs),
and 4 hemi-RVOs (HRVOs)] from 42 high-risk patients, along with 129 high-risk
controls. There was no significant difference (p = 0.47) in aspirin exposure
between the control (60%) and RVO (67%) groups, and the increased statin exposure
among controls (72% vs. 53% for the cases; p = 0.03) paralleled their higher
prevalence of hyperlipidemia. The non-statin and statin RVO groups each had a
mean VA of 20/800 at a mean 30 and 43 months of follow-up, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: No preventive benefit of aspirin or statins, and no therapeutic
benefit of statins, was found for RVO in high-risk patients. High-risk RVO
patients suffer substantially worse outcomes than those reported in other studies
not limited to such patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-016-3569-6 
PMID: 28004197  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


71. Int J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 18;9(12):1843-1845. doi: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.24.
eCollection 2016.

Glaucoma domiciliary service by optometrist.

Gupta B(1), Faridi U(2), Gurmani N(3), Faverty J(3), Smith M(3), Byles D(3).

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital Southampton, Southampton, SO16 6YD, UK. (2)Dorset County
Hospital, Williams Avenue, Dorchester, DT1 2JY, UK. (3)West of England Eye Unit, 
Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, Barrack Road, Exeter EX2 5DW, UK.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.24 
PMCID: PMC5155003
PMID: 28003990  [PubMed]


72. Int J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 18;9(12):1824-1831. doi: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.21.
eCollection 2016.

Biomechanics of the sclera and effects on intraocular pressure.

Jia X(1), Yu J(2), Liao SH(3), Duan XC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South
University, Changsha 410011, Hunan Province, China. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, the First Hospital of Hunan University of Chinese Medicine,
Changsha 410011, Hunan Province, China. (3)School of Information Science and
Engineering, Central South University, Changsha 410011, Hunan Province, China.

Accumulating evidence indicates that glaucoma is a multifactorial
neurodegenerative disease characterized by the loss of retinal ganglion cells
(RGC), resulting in gradual and progressive permanent loss of vision. Reducing
intraocular pressure (IOP) remains the only proven method for preventing and
delaying the progression of glaucomatous visual impairment. However, the specific
role of IOP in optic nerve injury remains controversial, and little is known
about the biomechanical mechanism by which elevated IOP leads to the loss of RGC.
Published studies suggest that the biomechanical properties of the sclera and
scleral lamina cribrosa determine the biomechanical changes of optic nerve head, 
and play an important role in the pathologic process of loss of RGC and optic
nerve damage. This review focuses on the current understanding of biomechanics of
sclera in glaucoma and provides an overview of the possible interactions between 
the sclera and IOP. Treatments and interventions aimed at the sclera are also
discussed.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.21 
PMCID: PMC5155000
PMID: 28003987  [PubMed]


73. Int J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 18;9(12):1814-1819. doi: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.19.
eCollection 2016.

Comparison of canaloplasty and trabeculectomy for open angle glaucoma: a
Meta-analysis.

Lin ZJ(1), Xu S(1), Huang SY(1), Zhang XB(2), Zhong YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ruijin Hospital Affiliated Medical School,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200025, China. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Hubei University of Science and Technology, Xianning 437100, Hubei
Province, China.

AIM: To evaluate the advantage of canaloplasty compared to trabeculectomy for
patients with open angle glaucoma.
METHODS: Potentially relevant studies were systematically searched using various 
databases from inception until December 2015. The outcome analyses performed
automatically using Revman 5.3 included intraocular pressure reduction (IOPR),
postoperative success rate, anti-glaucoma medications reduction and the incidence
of adverse events.
RESULTS: We included four qualified studies incorporating a total of 215 eyes for
quantitative synthesis. The weighted mean difference (WMD) of IOPR between
canaloplasty and trabeculectomy from baseline to 12mo was -2.33 (95%CI: -4.00,
-0.66). There was not significant improvement in the complete or qualified
success rate (OR: 0.58, 95%CI: 0.26, 1.31; OR: 0.50, 95%CI: 0.10, 2.44,
respectively). Similarly, no statistically significance was observed in
anti-glaucoma mediations reduction (WMD: -0.54, 95%CI: -1.18, 0.09). Sensitivity 
analysis of the primary outcome estimate confirmed the stability of the
Meta-analysis result.
CONCLUSION: Trabeculectomy seems to be more effective in lowering IOP up to 12mo 
when comparing with canaloplasty. Canaloplasty does not seem to be inferior to
trabeculectomy considering the postoperative success rate or the number of
postoperative anti-glaucoma medications. Meanwhile, it has an advantage of less
bleb related complications.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.19 
PMCID: PMC5154998
PMID: 28003985  [PubMed]


74. Int J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 18;9(12):1790-1797. doi: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.15.
eCollection 2016.

Phakic posterior chamber intraocular lens for unilateral high myopic amblyopia in
Chinese pediatric patients.

Zhang J(1), Li JR(2), Chen ZD(2), Yu MB(2), Yu KM(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510060, Guangdong Province, China; Depertment of
Ophthalmology, the East Area of Sichuan Academy of Medical Sciences & Sichuan
Provincial People's Hospital, Chengdu 610110, Sichuan Province, China. (2)State
Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen
University, Guangzhou 510060, Guangdong Province, China.

AIM: To assess the outcomes of posterior chamber implantable collamer lens (ICL) 
implantation in Chinese pediatric patients with unilateral high myopic amblyopia.
METHODS: Eleven eyes of 11 amblyopic patients aged 11.02±3.34y underwent ICL
(model V4, Staar Surgical Inc.) implantation to treat unilateral anisometropia
were studied. Visual acuity, cycloplegic refraction, contrast sensitivity,
stereopsis, intraocular pressure (IOP), vaulting, corneal endothelial cell count 
and complications were evaluated. Patients completed follow-up at 3d, 1, 3mo and 
the last follow-up time (mean 8.18±2.82mo) after surgery.
RESULTS: The mean myopic anisometropia was -13.70±3.25 D preoperatively and
+0.69±2.63 D at 8mo postoperatively. The logMAR corrected distance visual acuity 
(CDVA) of the amblyopic eye was 1.51±0.72 preoperatively and 0.75±0.40 at 8mo
postoperatively. The logMAR CDVA at 3d, 1, 3 and 8mo postoperatively improved by 
a mean of 0.64, 1.55, 1.82 and 2.64 lines and gained more than 2 lines accounted 
for 18%, 45%, 45%, 64%, respectively. The contrast sensitivity of 0.5, 1 and 2
cpd in amblyopic eyes was significantly increased after surgery. No patient had
near stereopsis recovery. The vaulting at 3 and 8mo was significantly lower than 
that at 1mo postoperatively. No other intraoperative or postoperative
complications were observed, except an acute pupillary block glaucoma happened in
a patient at two weeks postoperatively.
CONCLUSION: This short-term results indicate that ICL implantation can be a
promising alternative therapy for high myopic anisometropic amblyopia in
pediatric patients who have failed with conventional treatments and not suitable 
to corneal refraction surgery.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.15 
PMCID: PMC5154994
PMID: 28003981  [PubMed]


75. Int J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 18;9(12):1756-1760. doi: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.09.
eCollection 2016.

Preoperative evaluation and outcome of corneal transplantation for limbal
dermoids: a ten-year follow-up study.

Xin M(1), Gong YR(2), Jiang SH(3), Dai CH(3), Li SX(4), Shi WY(4).

Author information: 
(1)Shandong University, Jinan 250012, Shandong Province, China; Department of
Ophthalmology, Yantai Affiliated Hospital of Binzhou Medical University, Yantai
264100, Shandong Province, China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Binzhou Medical
University Hospital, Binzhou 256603, Shandong Province, China. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Yantai Affiliated Hospital of Binzhou Medical University, Yantai
264100, Shandong Province, China. (4)Shandong Eye Hospital, Shandong Eye
Institute, Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan 250021, Shandong Province,
China.

AIM: To summarize preoperative evaluation and outcome of corneal transplantation 
for limbal dermoids for ten years.
METHODS: Eighty-five patients diagnosed with limbal dermoids and treated with
corneal transplantation were analyzed retrospectively. All patients were further 
divided into two groups according to absence or presence of neovascularization
surrounding the dermoids in the corneal stroma. Eighty-two eyes were treated with
tumor excision combined with partial lamellar sclerokeratoplasty, and the other
three eyes were performed by penetrating keratoplasty. The size and location of
the tumor, the associated ocular and systemic anomalies, the depth of the corneal
penetration of tumor tissues, the preoperative and postoperative best-corrected
visual acuity (BCVA), graft survival and cosmetic outcome, and surgical
complications were recorded respectively.
RESULTS: The average age at surgery was 5.3y (range, 3mo-36y). The mean size of
dermoids was 6.1±1.6 mm. The 43.5% of eyes (37/85) were present with hair at the 
surface of the dermoid and 72.9% of dermoids were located inferotemporal of the
eye. Amplyopia was present in 34.1% of patients (29/85) and 9.4% of patients
(8/85) had lipodermoids. Eighteen patients suffered from Goldenhar's syndrome
with an accessory ear. The 75% of patients in group 1 had involvement of the
corneal deep stroma down to Descemet's membrane without involving it, but 71.4%
of patients had Descemet's membrane involvement in group 2. Preoperative BCVA
ranged from counting fingers to 20/20. Postoperatively 81.1% had a BCVA of 20/800
or better. There was no significant difference between the post-surgical BCVA of 
the two groups (t=1.584, P>0.05). The grafts of 70.5% patients were present as 1+
opacity, 21.1% as 2+ opacity, 8.2% as 3+ opacity and none as 4+ opacity. Surgical
complications included graft rejection, microperforation, prolonged
reepithelialization, steroid glaucoma, interface neovascularization, and
interface hemorrhage.
CONCLUSION: The dermoids with neovascularization surrounding them in the corneal 
stroma invaded deeper tissues in the cornea than those with no neovascularization
surrounding them in the corneal stroma. Therefore, surgeons should take care to
avoid corneal perforation during the corneal transplantation operation. The
majority of patients markedly improved their cosmetic appearance after surgery.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.09 
PMCID: PMC5154988
PMID: 28003975  [PubMed]


76. Int J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 18;9(12):1732-1739. doi: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.05.
eCollection 2016.

Optic neuropathy and increased retinal glial fibrillary acidic protein due to
microbead-induced ocular hypertension in the rabbit.

Zhao J(1), Zhu TH(2), Chen WC(2), Peng SM(2), Huang XS(2), Cho KS(3), Chen DF(3),
Liu GS(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Ophthalmology & Optometry Affiliated to Shenzhen University,
Shenzhen 518040, Guangdong Province, China; Shenzhen Eye Hospital Affiliated to
Jinan University, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Shenzhen 518040,
Guangdong Province, China. (2)Shenzhen Eye Hospital Affiliated to Jinan
University, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Shenzhen 518040, Guangdong 
Province, China. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Schepens Eye Research Institute,
Massachusetts Eye and Ear, Harvard Medical School, Boston 02114, USA. (4)Centre
for Eye Research Australia, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, East Melbourne 
3002, Australia; Ophthalmology, Department of Surgery, University of Melbourne,
East Melbourne 3002, Australia.

AIM: To characterize whether a glaucoma model with chronic elevation of the
intraocular pressure (IOP) was able to be induced by anterior chamber injection
of microbeads in rabbits.
METHODS: In order to screen the optimal dose of microbead injection, IOP was
measured every 3d for 4wk using handheld applanation tonometer after a single
intracameral injection of 10 µL, 25 µL, 50 µL or 100 µL microbeads (5×10(6)
beads/mL; n=6/group) in New Zealand White rabbits. To prolong IOP elevation, two 
intracameral injections of 50 µL microbeads or phosphate buffer saline (PBS) were
made respectively at days 0 and 21 (n=24/group). The fellow eye was not treated. 
At 5wk after the second injection of microbeads or PBS, bright-field microscopy
and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) were used to assess the changes in the
retina. The expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the retina
was evaluated by immunofluorescence, quantitative real-time polymerase chain
reaction and Western blot at 5wk after the second injection of microbeads.
RESULTS: Following a single intracameral injection of 10 µL, 25 µL, 50 µL or 100 
µL microbead, IOP levels showed a gradual increase and a later decrease over a
4wk period after a single injection of microbead into the anterior chamber of
rabbits. A peak IOP was observed at day 15 after injection. No significant
difference in peak value of IOP was found between 10 µL and 25 µL groups
(17.13±1.25 mm Hg vs 17.63±0.74 mm Hg; P=0.346). The peak value of IOP from 50 µL
group (23.25±1.16 mm Hg) was significantly higher than 10 µL and 25 µL groups
(all P<0.05). Administration of 100 µL microbead solution (23.00±0.93 mm Hg) did 
not lead to a significant increase in IOP compared to the 50 µL group (P=0.64). A
prolonged elevated IOP duration up to 8wk was achieved by administering two
injections of 50 µL microbeads (20.48±1.21 mm Hg vs 13.60±0.90 mm Hg in
PBS-injected group; P<0.05). The bright-field and TEM were used to assess the
changes of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Compared with PBS-injected group, the
extended IOP elevation was associated with the degeneration of optic nerve, the
reduction of RGC axons (47.16%, P<0.05) and the increased GFAP expression in the 
retina (4.74±1.10 vs 1.00±0.46, P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Two injections of microbeads into the ocular anterior chamber of
rabbits lead to a prolonged IOP elevation which results in structural abnormality
as well as loss in RGCs and their axons without observable ocular structural
damage or inflammatory response. We have therefore established a novel and
practical model of experimental glaucoma in rabbits.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2016.12.05 
PMCID: PMC5154984
PMID: 28003971  [PubMed]


77. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 9;10:2477-2484. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S115203. eCollection 
2016.

Comparison of Goldmann applanation tonometry and Pascal dynamic contour tonometry
in relation to central corneal thickness and corneal curvature.

Andreanos K(1), Koutsandrea C(1), Papaconstantinou D(1), Diagourtas A(1),
Kotoulas A(1), Dimitrakas P(1), Moschos MM(1).

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Ophthalmology, University of Athens, "G. Gennimatas"
General Hospital of Athens, Athens, Greece.

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to assess the influence of central corneal
thickness (CCT) and corneal curvature in tonometry measurements taken by Goldmann
applanation tonometry (GAT) and Pascal dynamic contour tonometry (DCT).
METHODS: This was a prospective study of 185 eyes from 97 subjects, attending
outpatient ophthalmology appointments, who underwent intraocular pressure
measurements by GAT and Pascal DCT. CCT and corneal curvature were obtained using
ultrasound pachymetry and Orbscan topography, respectively. All measurements were
carried out among males and females during the period 2009-2012. Apart from the
usual descriptive and exploratory data analysis, one-way analysis of variance and
agreement analysis were performed, linear as well as intraclass correlation
coefficients were estimated, and multiple scatter and Bland-Altman plots were
produced.
RESULTS: Mean IOP measurements obtained were 17.21±4.10 mmHg by DCT and
13.23±4.07 mmHg by GAT. Mean difference between the GAT and DCT measurements was 
3.88±2.8 mmHg. Mean CCT and corneal curvature were 522.78±52 μm and 43.83±2.9823 
D, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Intraocular pressure measured by GAT was consistently lower when
compared with DCT, and this difference was greatest with thinner CCT. Flat
corneas seem to influence GAT measurements compared to DCT.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S115203 
PMCID: PMC5158174
PMID: 28003737  [PubMed]


78. Mol Vis. 2016 Dec 14;22:1429-1436. eCollection 2016.

MMP19 expression in the human optic nerve.

Chirco KR(1), Hazlewood RJ(2), Miller K(1), Workalemahu G(1), Jampol LM(3),
Lesser GR(4), Mullins RF(1), Kuehn MH(1), Fingert JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA; Stephen A. Wynn Institute for Vision Research,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA; Stephen 
A. Wynn Institute for Vision Research, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA;
Department of Ophthalmology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern
University, Chicago, IL. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Feinberg School of
Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL. (4)Department of Ophthalmology,
William Beaumont School of Medicine, Oakland University, Royal Oak, MI.

PURPOSE: The defining feature of glaucoma is excavation of the optic nerve head; 
however, the mechanism of this loss of tissue is not well understood. We recently
discovered a copy number variation upstream of matrix metalloproteinase 19
(MMP19) in a large, autosomal dominant pedigree with a congenital malformation of
the optic disc called cavitary optic disc anomaly (CODA). Patients with CODA have
abnormal optic discs that exhibit an excavated shape similar to cupping seen in
glaucoma. The goal of this study is to characterize the localization of MMP19
within the human optic nerve.
METHODS: The MMP19 protein in the optic nerve was evaluated with western blot
analysis and with immunohistochemistry in sagittal and en face/cross sections of 
optic nerves obtained from healthy human donor eyes.
RESULTS: The MMP19 protein was detected in the human optic nerve, retina, and
RPE/choroid with western blot analysis, with highest expression in the retina and
the optic nerve. Using immunohistochemistry, MMP19 was localized within the optic
nerve to the extracellular space within the septa that separate bundles of optic 
nerve axons into fascicles. The presence of MMP19 within the optic nerve septa
was further confirmed by the colocalization of MMP19 to this structure with type 
IV collagen. Strong labeling of MMP19 was also detected in the arachnoid layer of
the optic nerve sheath. Finally, immunohistochemistry of the optic nerve cross
sections demonstrated that MMP19 shows a peripheral to central gradient, with
more abundant labeling along the edges of the optic nerve and in the arachnoid
layer than in the center of the nerve.
CONCLUSIONS: Abundant MMP19 was detected in the optic nerve head, the primary
site of pathology in patients with CODA. The localization of MMP19 to the optic
nerve septa is consistent with its predicted secretion and accumulation within
the extracellular spaces of this tissue. Moreover, the lateral localization of
MMP19 observed in the optic nerve cross sections suggests that it might have a
role in regulating adhesion to the optic nerve to the scleral canal and
remodeling the extracellular matrix that provides the structural integrity of the
optic disc. Dysregulation of MMP19 production might, therefore, undermine the
connections between the optic nerve and the scleral canal and cause a collapse of
the optic disc and the development of CODA. Similar processes might also be at
work in the formation of optic disc cupping in glaucoma.


PMCID: PMC5166795
PMID: 28003733  [PubMed - in process]


79. Retin Cases Brief Rep. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1097/ICB.0000000000000506. [Epub
ahead of print]

MACULAR MICROCYSTS IN SCHWARTZ-MATSUO SYNDROME.

Chen X(1), Richter GM, Caprioli J, McCannel TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Stein Eye Institute, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, California.

PURPOSE: To describe a case of macular microcysts associated with advanced
secondary glaucoma from Schwartz-Matsuo syndrome.
METHODS: Clinical presentation, color fundus photography, optic disk photography,
visual fields, and optical coherence tomography are presented.
RESULTS: A 32-year-old woman presented with advanced, unilateral secondary
glaucoma associated with a macula-on rhegmatogenous retinal detachment. She was
diagnosed with Schwartz-Matsuo syndrome. Spectral domain optical coherence
tomography showed macular microcystic changes in the paracentral retina at the
level of the inner nuclear layer.
CONCLUSION: Macular microcystic changes in the paracentral inner nuclear layer on
spectral domain optical coherence tomography have been described in eyes with
optic atrophy associated with a variety of diseases. This is the first described 
case of macular microcysts associated with advanced secondary glaucoma from
Schwartz-Matsuo syndrome and may offer insights into the pathogenesis of these
microcysts.

DOI: 10.1097/ICB.0000000000000506 
PMID: 28002286  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


80. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000612. [Epub ahead of print]

Spontaneous Dislocation of Trabeculectomy Scleral Flap in the Anterior Chamber in
a Patient With Pseudoxanthoma Elasticum.

Danieliute L(1), Tsagkataki M, Nikita E.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, Manchester, UK.

We report a case of a 54-year-old man, known to have pseudoxanthoma elasticum
(PXE), who had a trabeculectomy in his left eye for secondary glaucoma following 
blunt trauma. Ten years after augmented trabeculectomy, the patient presented to 
casualty clinic with an inferiorly dislocated, anterior chamber (AC), scleral
trabeculectomy flap. Corrected vision was hand movement with an intraocular
pressure of 17 mm Hg. There was significant AC inflammation (cells 2+).
Gonioscopy revealed a residual mobile scleral flap. The bleb was cystic with no
leak. To our knowledge this is the first report of a trabeculectomy scleral flap 
dislocation into the AC in a patient with PXE. Ophthalmologists should be aware
of this complication in patients with PXE.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000612 
PMID: 28002194  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


81. J Glaucoma. 2017 Jan 4. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000615. [Epub ahead of print]

Reply to Comment on "Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Cyclodialysis Cleft Before and
After Cyclopexy".

Jeong JH(1), Moon NJ.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Konyang University Hospital, Daejon †Department 
of Ophthalmology, Chung-Ang University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000615 
PMID: 28002193  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


82. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000611. [Epub ahead of print]

Long-term Outcomes and Complications of Pars Plana Baerveldt Implantation in
Children.

Vinod K(1), Panarelli JF, Gentile RC, Sidoti PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai and New
York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai, New York, NY.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The purpose of the study was to report long-term outcomes
and complications of Baerveldt glaucoma implant (BGI) surgery with pars plana
tube insertion in children.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The medical records of consecutive aphakic and
pseudophakic children (<16 y of age) who underwent BGI surgery with pars plana
tube insertion between 1990 and 2013 were retrospectively reviewed. Main outcome 
measures were intraocular pressure and number of glaucoma medications.
Postoperative complications were recorded. Failure was defined as an intraocular 
pressure <5 or ≥21 mm Hg (with or without glaucoma medications), loss of light
perception, or need for additional glaucoma surgery.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven children were identified with a mean age of 6.0±4.7 years
(range, 4 mo to 14.5 y). Mean follow-up after pars plana BGI surgery was 6.5±3.4 
years (range, 9 mo to 12.8 y) for patients who met success criteria. Mean
intraocular pressure and mean number of glaucoma medications at most recent
follow-up for patients with successful intraocular pressure control were 13.8±4.1
and 2.3±1.9 mm Hg, respectively. The Kaplan-Meier survival analysis revealed 1-, 
3-, 5-, and 7-year success rates of 94.5%, 74.6%, 65.0%, and 45.8%, respectively.
Complications included tube exposure in 1 patient (2.7%), tube obstruction in 8
patients (21.6%), and retinal detachment in 9 patients (24.3%). Seventeen
patients (45.9%) failed due to inadequate intraocular pressure control, of whom 9
(24.3%) required additional glaucoma surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Although pars plana BGI surgery is a reasonable option for managing 
refractory glaucoma in aphakic and pseudophakic children, surgeons must be aware 
of the potential need for additional glaucoma surgery and/or posterior segment
complications with extended follow-up.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000611 
PMID: 28002192  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


83. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000613. [Epub ahead of print]

Sekundo's Applanator: 5 Years of Experience With Transconjunctival Suturing.

Elbaz H(1), Sekundo W, Schröder FM, Schulze S.

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Department, Philipps University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany.

Sekundo's Applanator is a new surgical instrument used mainly in
transconjunctival scleral flap suturing in cases of postoperative hypotony after 
trabeculectomy. In contrast to Hoskins lens, it offers better visualization of
the border of the scleral flap with good intraoperative stabilization of the
globe; thus, it increases the effectiveness and decreases the time of the
surgical procedure. Sekundo's Applanator was also found to be useful in reducing 
the size of an oversized bleb after trabeculectomy and in the closure of leaking 
sutureless sclerotomies after vitrectomies. In this report, we present and
discuss the properties, uses, and advantages of this new instrument to the
ophthalmic community.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000613 
PMID: 28002191  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


84. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000616. [Epub ahead of print]

A Comment on "Juvenile-onset Normal Tension Glaucoma From Chronic, Recurrent Low 
Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure." J Glaucoma. 2016;25: e738-e740.

Gallina P(1), Savastano A, Becattini E, Orlandini S, Rizzo S, Porfirio B.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Surgery and Translational Medicine, Tuscany School of
Neurosurgery Departments of †Surgery and Translational Medicine, Ophthalmic
Section ‡Clinical and Experimental Biomedical Sciences, University of Florence,
Italy.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000616 
PMID: 28002190  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


85. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000569. [Epub ahead of print]

To Study the Efficacy of Laser Peripheral Iridoplasty in the Treatment of Eyes
With Primary Angle Closure and Plateau Iris Syndrome, Unresponsive to Laser
Peripheral Iridotomy, Using Anterior-Segment OCT as a Tool: Comment.

Singh N(1), Pegu J, Dubey S, Gandhi M.

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Services, Dr. Shroff's Charity Eye Hospital, Daryaganj, New Delhi,
India.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000569 
PMID: 28002189  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


86. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000608. [Epub ahead of print]

Orbital Cellulitis Following Uncomplicated Aqueous Shunt Surgery.

Beck DE(1), El-Assal KS, Doherty MD, Wride NK.

Author information: 
(1)Sunderland Eye Infirmary, Sunderland, Tyne and Wear.

PURPOSE: To date, there have only been 5 reported cases of orbital cellulitis
following implantation of an aqueous tube shunt for glaucoma. Previously reported
cases have involved eyes with significant comorbidities and successful management
has often required the removal of the device alongside systemic antibiotic
therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We present a 53-year-old man with severe orbital
cellulitis, 3 months after routine implantation of a Baerveldt tube shunt for
primary open angle glaucoma. The patient was managed medically, with topical and 
systemic antibiotic therapy. The patient went on to make a full recovery with the
tube in situ.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: We report that a more conservative approach (without
tube removal) to be successful in a case where there is no evidence of tube
exposure. It is important to appreciate that in some cases of orbital cellulitis 
without clear signs of intraocular involvement, a tube can be left in situ.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000608 
PMID: 28002188  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


87. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000533. [Epub ahead of print]

Early Reoperation Rate, Complication, and Outcomes in Resident-performed Glaucoma
Surgery.

Hsia YC(1), Lee JH, Cui QN, Stewart JM, Naseri A, Porco T, Stamper RL, Han Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, San Francisco School of Medicine, University of
California, San Francisco, CA.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The purpose of the study was to examine reoperation rate
and complications of resident-performed glaucoma surgeries within the first 90
postoperative days.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective study of resident-performed glaucoma
filtering surgeries at the San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center between 
2002 and 2014 was performed. Patients requiring reoperation within 90 days of the
initial surgery were included in our study. Combined surgeries were excluded.
Complications and the rates of reoperation within the first 90 days were
evaluated. Clinical outcomes for those who needed reoperations were evaluated at 
the 1-year follow-up.
RESULTS: Total of 180 cases were reviewed [34 trabeculectomy, 85 Ex-PRESS shunt, 
and 61 Ahmed glaucoma valve (AGV)]. One hundred and four eyes developed
complications, most commonly choroidal effusion (65.3%), followed by hypotony
(45.2%) and wound leak (32.7%). Complications were comparable among the 3 groups,
except that filtering surgery had significantly more wound leak than AGV
(P<0.001). Seven (3.9%) cases required reoperation within first 90 days. There
was no reoperation for trabeculectomy group. Reoperation rate was 4.7% for
Ex-PRESS and 4.9% for AGV (P=0.74). Indications for reoperation were persistent
wound leak (4 cases) and tube occlusion/revision (3 cases). For the 7 patients
who required reoperations, their intraocular pressure at 1-year postreoperation
was significantly decreased compared with intraocular pressure before the initial
glaucoma surgery (P<0.001) with similar number of glaucoma medications and stable
visual acuity.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma incisional surgeries performed by third-year ophthalmology 
residents had acceptable and comparable reoperation rates and complication rates 
for patients with trabeculectomy, Ex-PRESS, and AGV. Clinical outcomes for the
patients requiring reoperation were favorable.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000533 
PMID: 28002187  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


88. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 2017 Jan 1;250(1):60-67. doi: 10.2460/javma.250.1.60.

Evaluation of potential risk factors for development of primary angle-closure
glaucoma in Bouviers des Flandres.

Dubin AJ, Bentley E, Buhr KA, Miller PE.

OBJECTIVE To evaluate potential risk factors for development of primary
angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) in Bouviers des Flandres. DESIGN Prospective,
observational study. ANIMALS 98 Bouviers des Flandres. PROCEDURES All dogs
underwent slit-lamp biomicroscopy, indirect ophthalmoscopy, gonioscopy,
applanation tonometry, streak retinoscopy, and A-scan, B-scan, and
high-resolution ultrasonography. Iridocorneal angles and degree of pectinate
ligament dysplasia sheeting were graded, and an angle index was mathematically
derived for each eye on the basis of these values. Ciliary clefts evaluated by
high-resolution ultrasonography were classified as open, narrow, or closed.
Owners were contacted by telephone 7 to 9 years after the initial examination to 
determine whether dogs had a subsequent diagnosis of PACG. Relationships between 
previously recorded variables and the development of PACG were evaluated by
logistic regression methods. Available pedigrees were reviewed to assess genetic 
relationships among affected dogs. RESULTS 9 of 92 (9.8%) dogs with follow-up
information available developed PACG. An angle index < 1 and presence of a narrow
or closed ciliary cleft in 1 or both eyes were each significantly associated with
development of PACG. Odds of developing PACG for dogs with an angle index < 1
(indicating marked reduction in outflow capacity through the iridocorneal angle),
a narrow or closed ciliary cleft in > 1 eye, or both findings were 13, 20, and 28
times those for dogs that did not have these findings, respectively. All dogs
that developed PACG shared 1 common male sire or grandsire. CONCLUSIONS AND
CLINICAL RELEVANCE Several anatomic factors were significant risk factors for
development of PACG in this population of dogs. Results also suggested a genetic 
component for the disease.

DOI: 10.2460/javma.250.1.60 
PMID: 28001106  [PubMed - in process]


89. Sci Rep. 2016 Dec 21;6:39301. doi: 10.1038/srep39301.

Sustained Elevation of Intraocular Pressure Associated with Intravitreal
Administration of Anti-vascular Endothelial Growth Factor: A Systematic Review
and Meta-Analysis.

Zhou Y(1), Zhou M(2), Xia S(3), Jing Q(4), Gao L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan 410011, China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
Shanghai First People's Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong
University, Shanghai, China. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, the second hospital 
affiliated to the University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan, China.
(4)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Xiangya Hospital,Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, China.

This study aimed to assess whether repetitive intravitreal injections (IVI) of
anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) cause sustained elevation of 
intraocular pressure (SE-IOP). We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis
based on five randomized controlled trials (RCTs) assessing 1428 subjects and 17 
non-RCTs evaluating 8358 cases. In the RCTs, an increased risk of SE-IOP was
found in the anti-VEGF group (summary risk ratio [RR] = 3.00, 95% confidence
interval [CI]: 1.63-5.53) compared with the sham injection or laser group. The
increased risk of SE-IOP was correlated with follow-up duration (RR = 2.14, 95%
CI 0.69-6.57 at 6 months; RR = 3.15, 95% CI 0.99-10.09 at 12 months; RR = 3.48,
95% CI 1.38-8.78 at 23 months). The risk of SE-IOP after non-exclusion of
pre-existing glaucoma patients (RR = 3.48, 95% CI 1.38-8.78) was higher than that
obtained after excluding pre-existing glaucoma patients (RR = 2.6, 95% CI
1.16-5.81). In non-RCTs, the pooled prevalence of SE-IOP was 4.7% (95% CI
3.7-5.8) regardless of diagnosis criteria. In conclusion, repeated intravitreal
injections of anti-VEGF agents cause a 2-fold elevation in SE-IOP risk.

DOI: 10.1038/srep39301 
PMID: 28000707  [PubMed - in process]


90. Adv Ther. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1007/s12325-016-0461-z. [Epub ahead of print]

Current Perspectives on the Use of Anti-VEGF Drugs as Adjuvant Therapy in
Glaucoma.

Andrés-Guerrero V(1,)(2,)(3), Perucho-González L(1,)(2,)(3), García-Feijoo
J(1,)(2,)(3), Morales-Fernández L(1,)(2,)(3), Saenz-Francés F(1,)(2,)(3),
Herrero-Vanrell R(1,)(4,)(3), Júlvez LP(1,)(5,)(6), Llorens VP(1,)(5,)(6),
Martínez-de-la-Casa JM(1,)(2,)(3), Konstas AP(7).

Author information: 
(1)Ocular Pathology National Net OFTARED of the Institute of Health Carlos III,
Madrid, Spain. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital Clínico San Carlos,
Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain. (3)Sanitary Research Institute
of the San Carlos Clinical Hospital, Madrid, Spain. (4)Department of Pharmacy and
Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Complutense University of Madrid,
Madrid, Spain. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital Universitario Miguel
Servet, Saragossa, Spain. (6)Aragon Health Sciences Institute, Saragossa, Spain. 
(7)1st and 3rd University Departments of Ophthalmology, AHEPA Hospital, Aristotle
University of Thessaloniki, 1 Kyriakidi Street, 546 36, Thessaloniki, Greece.
konstas@med.auth.gr.

The approval of one of the first anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
agents for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration one
decade ago marked the beginning of a new era in the management of several
sight-threatening retinal diseases. Since then, emerging evidence has
demonstrated the utility of these therapies for the treatment of other ocular
conditions characterized by elevated VEGF levels. In this article we review
current perspectives on the use of anti-VEGF drugs as adjuvant therapy in the
management of neovascular glaucoma (NVG). The use of anti-VEGFs for modifying
wound healing in glaucoma filtration surgery (GFS) is also reviewed. Selected
studies investigating the use of anti-VEGF agents or antimetabolites in GFS or
the management of NVG have demonstrated that these agents can improve surgical
outcomes. However, anti-VEGF agents have yet to demonstrate specific advantages
over the more established agents commonly used today. Further studies are needed 
to evaluate the duration of action, dosing intervals, and toxicity profile of
these treatments.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-016-0461-z 
PMID: 28000166  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


91. Vet Rec. 2016 Dec 20. pii: vetrec-2016-104121. doi: 10.1136/vr.104121. [Epub
ahead of print]

Pectinate ligament dysplasia in the Border Collie, Hungarian Vizsla and Golden
Retriever.

Oliver JA(1), Ekiri AB(2), Mellersh CS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Preventive Medicine, Animal Health Trust, Lanwades Park, Kentford, 
Newmarket, Suffolk CB8 7UU, UK. (2)One Health Institute, School of Veterinary
Medicine, University of California, Davis, California, USA.

Pectinate ligament dysplasia (PLD) is significantly associated with primary
closed angle glaucoma (PCAG) in several dog breeds. Gonioscopy screening for PLD 
is advised in breeds in which PLD and PCAG are particularly prevalent in order
that affected dogs may be eliminated from the breeding population. The Border
Collie (BC), Hungarian Vizsla (HV) and Golden Retriever (GR) breeds are currently
under investigation for PLD by the British Veterinary Association/Kennel
Club/International Sheep Dog Society (BVA/KC/ISDS) Eye Scheme. The authors aimed 
to determine the prevalence of PLD in UK populations of BC, HV and GR and to
investigate possible associations between the degree of PLD and age and sex.
Gonioscopy was performed in 102 BCs, 112 HVs and 230 GRs and the percentage of
iridocorneal angle affected by PLD was estimated and classified as unaffected (0 
per cent), mildly affected (<20 per cent), moderately affected (20-90 per cent)
or severely affected (>90 per cent). Eleven of 102 (13.8 per cent) BCs, 16/112
(14.3 per cent) HVs and 60/230 (26.1 per cent) GRs were moderately or severely
affected by PLD. The prevalence of PLD was significantly higher in GR than both
BC and HV. There was a significant positive correlation between PLD and age in
the HV and GR but not in the BC. There was no association between PLD and sex in 
any breed.

British Veterinary Association.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.104121 
PMID: 27999154  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


92. BMJ Case Rep. 2016 Dec 20;2016. pii: bcr2016216886. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2016-216886.

Bilateral choroidal detachment with exudative retinal detachment in a patient
with septicaemia.

Rani PK(1), Ambiya V(2), Senthil S(3), Jalali S(1).

Author information: 
(1)LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, Telangana, India. (2)Department of Retina,
LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, Telangana, India. (3)Department of Glaucoma, 
LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, Telangana, India.

We present a case of bilateral choroidal and exudative retinal detachment with
hypotony in a patient with septicaemia. Our patient after initial hospitalisation
was treated by the local ophthalmologist as a case of sterile pan uveitis with
systemic and topical steroids that did not have any effect. Our patient responded
well to timely surgical intervention of choroidal drainage and vitrectomy with
silicone oil tamponade followed by steroids and antibiotics. Cataract progression
in both eyes occurred due to hypotony, inflammation, use of steroids and the
vitreous surgery. It was successfully managed with timely surgical removal of
cataract and intraocular lens implantation in both eyes facilitating early visual
rehabilitation. Topical medications included frequent topical steroids and
antibiotics as per our published protocols.

2016 BMJ Publishing Group Ltd.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2016-216886 
PMID: 27999127  [PubMed - in process]


93. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2016 Dec 11;52(12):952-956. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0412-4081.2016.12.017.

[Research advances of optic nerve lamina cribrosa structure and its measurement
analysis].

[Article in Chinese]

Tian T(1), Pan YZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking University First Hospital, Key Laboratory 
of Vision Loss and Restoration, Ministry of Education, Beijing 100034, China.

The lamina cribrosa (LC) is believed to be site of injury to retina ganglion cell
axons in glaucoma. The ability to visualize this structure helps us increase the 
understanding of pathophysiological process of glaucoma. At the same time, it is 
helpful in the early detection and treatment of glaucoma. While for many years
the researches on the LC were essentially dependent on histology. With the
development of optical coherence tomography (OCT) in recent years, it is possible
to image the LC in vivo in both animals and human. This review focused on the
biomechanics of optic nerve and LC, recent advances in OCT imaging of LC, imaging
processing and analysis. All of these will supply the ability to diagnose and
monitor glaucoma, as well as to expand our recognition of its pathophysiology.
(Chin J Ophthalmol, 2016, 52: 952-956).


PMID: 27998461  [PubMed - in process]


94. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2016 Dec 11;52(12):885-888. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0412-4081.2016.12.003.

[Pay attention on optical coherence tomography evaluation for optic nerve
diseases].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Eye and ENT Hospital of Fudan University, Shanghai 200031, China.

Optical coherence tomography(OCT) had become the most important imaging technique
in ophthalmology. OCT is able to segment the retinal nerve fiber layer and
retinal ganglion cell layer accurately. Quantitative analysis can be performed
for both layers. OCT is very important to evaluate the neuron and axon loss in
optic nerve diseases diagnosis. Meanwhile, OCT has great value for
differentiating glaucoma and macular diseases from optic nerve diseases. This
review presented OCT application in optic nerve diseases diagnosis,
differentiation diagnosis, the key points in use and the features of en face OCT 
and OCT angiography. It gave us suggestions that it should be pay more attention 
to OCT examination in diagnosis and treatment of optic nerve diseases. (Chin J
Ophthalmol, 2016, 52: 885-888).


PMID: 27998452  [PubMed - in process]


95. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Dec 13;96(46):3729-3734. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0376-2491.2016.46.008.

[Expression of erythropoietin in neovascular glaucoma and its role in the
angiogenesis in vitro].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun Y(1), Xing YQ, Guan WY.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan
430060, China.

Objective: To explore the expression of erythropoietin (EPO) in neovascular
glaucoma (NVG) and its role in the angiogenesis in vitro. Methods: The levels of 
EPO in aqueous humor and vitreous body of NVG patients (10 cases) and non-NVG
patients (10 cases) were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were used as the research object,
and were divided into EPO 0.1, 1, 10 U/ml group according to EPO concentration,
on the basis of treatment of HUVECs cells with 10 ng/ml vascular endothelial
growth factor (VEGF). Effect of different concentrations of recombinant human EPO
and VEGF on the proliferation, angiogenesis and the formation of capillary like
structures of HUVECs in vitro was explored, meanwhile, protein and mRNA
expression of hypoxia inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) was detected by Western blot
and RT-PCR. Results: In the study, no patients discontinued the trial. EPO level 
of aqueous humor in non-NVG patients was (29.4±0.6) ng/L, while EPO level in
aqueous humor of NVG patients reached (307.5±7.6) ng/L, and the difference was
statistically significant (t=2.186, P=0.039); vitreous EPO levels in non-NVG
patients was (16.7±1.2) ng/L, while vitreous EPO levels in NVG patients reached
(267.5±11.4) ng/L, with a statistically significant difference (t=2.517,
P=0.019). Compared with control group, 0.1, 1, 10 U/ml EPO and 10 ng/ml VEGF
promoted the proliferation of HUVECs, and formation of vascular lumen-like and
capillary-like structure in vitro, and up-regulated the protein and mRNA
expression of HIF-1α (all P<0.05). Conclusion: EPO was highly expressed in the
NVG patients, and exogenous EPO could significantly promote the proliferation of 
HUVEC and formation of vascular lumen-like and capillary-like structure, which
may be related to up-regulation of HIF-1 expression.


PMID: 27998430  [PubMed - in process]


96. Clin Exp Optom. 2016 Dec 20. doi: 10.1111/cxo.12501. [Epub ahead of print]

Knocked by the shuttlecock: twelve sight-threatening blunt-eye injuries in
Australian badminton players.

Jao KK(1,)(2), Atik A(1,)(2), Jamieson MP(1), Sheales MP(1), Lee MH(2), Porter
A(3), Roufas A(3,)(4), Goldberg I(4,)(5,)(6), Zamir E(1), White A(3,)(4,)(6),
Skalicky SE(1,)(4,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Ophthalmology Unit, Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Westmead Hospital Eye Clinic, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(4)Discipline of Ophthalmology, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia. (5)Eye Associates, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(6)Glaucoma Unit, Sydney Eye Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (7)The
University of Melbourne Department of Surgery, Royal Melbourne Hospital,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Non-penetrating ocular injuries from badminton shuttlecocks can
result in severe damage and life-long complications. This case series highlights 
the morbidity of such injuries, particularly in regard to post-traumatic
glaucoma.
METHODS: This is a retrospective case series of 12 patients with
shuttlecock-related blunt eye injuries sustained during badminton play without
eye protection. By approaching colleagues through conference presentations and
networking, the authors have attempted to gather all known cases of shuttlecock
ocular injury managed in tertiary ocular emergency departments or private
ophthalmological clinics in Victoria and New South Wales, Australia in 2015.
RESULTS: This is the first multicentre case series to describe badminton-related 
ocular injuries in Australia. Our case series demonstrates, in particular,
long-term glaucoma-related morbidity for patients over a large age range (16 to
77 years), with one patient requiring ongoing management 26 years following their
initial injury. The cases reported further add to the literature promoting
awareness of badminton-related ocular injury.
CONCLUSIONS: We encourage player education and advocacy on badminton-related eye 
injuries and appropriate use of eye protection to reduce associated morbidity.

© 2016 Optometry Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/cxo.12501 
PMID: 27998001  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


97. J Investig Allergol Clin Immunol. 2016;26(6):379-381. doi: 10.18176/jiaci.0099.

Serious Adverse Reaction to Timolol Eye Drops in a 7-Year-Old Boy With Glaucoma
and Asthma.

Cano-Mollinedo M(1,)(2), Rodríguez Del Río P(1), Sánchez-García S(1), Escudero
C(1), Ibañez MD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Allergy, Niño Jesús University Hospital, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Allergy, Tomelloso General Hospital, Ciudad Real, Spain.

DOI: 10.18176/jiaci.0099 
PMID: 27996947  [PubMed - in process]


98. High Alt Med Biol. 2016 Dec 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Corneal Thickness in Highlanders.

Patyal S(1), Arora A(2), Yadav A(3), Sharma VK(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Army Hospital Research and Referral , New Delhi, India . (2)2 153, General
Hospital , Leh, India . (3)3 All India Institute of Medical Sciences , New Delhi,
India .

Patyal, Sagarika, Amit Arora, Arun Yadav, and Vijay K. Sharma. Corneal thickness 
in highlanders. High Alt Med Biol. 17:000-000, 2016.-Background: Corneal
thickness is an important parameter with diagnostic and therapeutic implications.
Various studies have highlighted increase in corneal thickness in lowlanders on
ascending to high altitude. However, there are no studies in the published
literature pertaining to corneal thickness of the highlanders who are inhabitants
of such altitudes. Hence, study was carried out with objective to determine the
corneal thickness of highlanders living at heights of more than 11,000 feet and
compare it with corneal thickness of lowlanders.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The
highlander participants of the study consisted of inhabitants of Ladakh region of
India at an altitude of 11,000 feet or more and lowlander participants consisted 
of inhabitants at an altitude of 1500 feet. A total of 254 highlanders and 212
lowlanders participated. A mean of 25 measurements of central corneal thickness
(CCT) of every participant was obtained for each eye using ultrasonic pachymeter.
RESULTS: The mean age of the participants was 41.8 (15.9) and 47.7 (17.7) years
among lowlanders and highlanders, respectively. The highlanders had 11.95 μm
lower mean CCT reading compared to lowlanders after adjusting for age and sex (p 
value <0.001). There was no statistically significant difference in mean CCT
readings of right eye and left eye in either lowlanders or highlanders. Age also 
had a significant effect after adjustment for location and gender (p = 0.001).
CCT decreased by 0.31 μm with every year increase in the age. Gender had no
statistically significant effect.
CONCLUSION: This study found statistically significant difference in CCT
measurements between highlanders and lowlanders. The thinner corneas of
highlanders may have a bearing on diagnosis and treatment of glaucoma, refractive
surgery, contact lens fitting implantation of Intacs, and astigmatic keratectomy 
done on such patients. The study also opens the scope of further research in the 
area.

DOI: 10.1089/ham.2016.0074 
PMID: 27996304  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


99. Turk J Emerg Med. 2016 Feb 22;16(4):169-170. eCollection 2016.

Respiratuvar depression after accidental nasal ingestion of brimonidine eye drops
in infant.

Gunes A(1), Balik H(1), Yel S(1), Kocamaz H(2), Bosnak M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dicle University Medical School, Department of Pediatrics, Diyarbakir, Turkey.
(2)Pamukkale University Medical School, Department of Pediatrics, Denizli,
Turkey. (3)Gaziantep University, Medical School Department of Pediatric Critical 
Care, Gaziantep, Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: Brimonidine tartrate is an alpha-2 agonist used for glaucoma
treatment. It can lead to serious poisoning symptoms when misused by children.
CASE REPORT: In this case report, 3 months-old male patient with severe central
nervous system depression and respiratory arrest as a result of accidentally
nasal instillation of 1 cc brimonidine tartrate that benefited from mechanic
ventilation and naloxone treatment was presented.
CONCLUSION: This case report suggested, that misuse of nasal brimonidine eye drop
could result in serious respiratory distress and central nervous system
depression. Mechanical ventilation and naloxone administration can be useful for 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjem.2016.02.002 
PMCID: PMC5154584
PMID: 27995209  [PubMed]


100. J Ophthalmic Vis Res. 2016 Oct-Dec;11(4):452-454.

Intraoperative Optical Coherence Tomography Guided Bleb Needling.

Dada T(1), Angmo D(1), Midha N(1), Sidhu T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Research Facility and Clinical Services, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre
for Ophthalmic Sciences, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi,
India.

Two patients with history of trabeculectomy presented with uncontrolled
intraocular pressure (IOP) postoperatively. The first patient had a flat and
vasularized bleb 10 weeks after the surgery, and the second subject developed
encapsulated bleb 3 months postoperatively. Both patients were taken to the
operating room and intraoperative optical coherence tomography (OCT) guided bleb 
needling was performed to restore aqueous egress into the subconjunctival space. 
Postoperatively, IOP of the operated eyes ranged 14-18 mmHg at week 6 and month
3. None of the eyes had any intraoperative or postoperative complications. This
novel application of the intraoperative OCT for bleb needling facilitates
precision surgery under direct visualization and reduces the risk of
complications.

DOI: 10.4103/2008-322X.194150 
PMCID: PMC5139562
PMID: 27994819  [PubMed]


101. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2016 Dec 7;10:3977-3981. eCollection 2016.

Impact of prostaglandin glaucoma drops on platelet-activating factor action: an
in vitro study.

Moschos MM(1), Nitoda E(1), Chatziralli IP(1), Panos GD(2), Demopoulos CA(3).

Author information: 
(1)1st Department of Ophthalmology, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian
University of Athens, Athens, Greece. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Geneva
University Hospitals (HUG), University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Laboratory of Biochemistry, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens,
Athens, Greece.

AIM: The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of different
prostaglandin analogs on platelet-activating factor (PAF) levels.
METHODS: Three prostaglandin analogs were selected: bimatoprost 0.3 mg/mL,
latanoprost 50 μg/mL, and tafluprost 15 μg/mL. Each drug sample was tested for
its ability to cause platelet aggregation, which was measured as PAF-induced
aggregation, before and after the addition of various concentrations of the
examined sample, creating a linear curve of percentage inhibition (ranging from
0% to 100%) versus different concentrations of the sample. The concentration of
the sample that inhibited 50% PAF-induced aggregation was calculated based on
this curve, and this value was defined as IC50. In addition, the effect of eye
drops on PAF metabolism was examined, through an in vitro analysis on PAF basic
metabolic enzymes (PAF-cholinephosphotransferase,
PAF-acetyl-CoA:1-O-alkyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine acetyltransferase, and
PAF-acetylhydrolase).
RESULTS: The IC50 values for Lumigan UD(®) (bimatoprost 0.3 mg/mL), Monoprost(®) 
(latanoprost 50 μg/mL), and Saflutan (tafluprost 15 μg/mL) were 8.7, 0.28, and
1.4 μg/mL, respectively.
DISCUSSION: All three prostaglandin analogs suspended PAF, but bimatoprost
induced the most potent inhibition, compared to tafluprost and to the weak effect
of latanoprost.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S117806 
PMCID: PMC5153256
PMID: 27994439  [PubMed - in process]


102. Middle East Afr J Ophthalmol. 2016 Oct-Dec;23(4):296-301.

Bottle Characteristics of Topical International Glaucoma Medications versus Local
Brands in Saudi Arabia.

Al-Jumaian N(1), Malik R(1), Khandekar R(1), Al-Humaidan A(1), Al-Madany R(1),
Al-Qahtani R(1), Altowairqi A(1), Al-Theeb A(1), Zaman B(1), Al-Djasim L(1),
Craven ER(2), Edward DP(2).

Author information: 
(1)King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. (2)King Khaled Eye 
Specialist Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; Wilmer Eye Institute, Baltimore,
Maryland, USA.

WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Physical bottle characteristics differ of brand name
topical glaucoma medications and local generic equivalents. This study compares
the bottle characteristics of international topical glaucoma brands versus local 
brands from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
METHODS: Data were collected on bottle drum volume, drop volume, bottle
squeezability, bottle tip diameter, labels and instructions, cap color coding,
and clarity of the drug label. Density-based calculations of drops in bottle
volume were assessed using an analytic balance. Bottle tip diameter was measured 
using 0.05 mm Vernier calipers. A Likert scale-based questionnaire was used to
evaluate the subjective opinions of patients on bottle squeezability, clarity of 
usage and storage instructions, and the consistency of the cap color coding.
RESULTS: The volumes of international brands were statistically significantly
higher than the local brands (P < 0.001). A number of drops per bottle and tip
diameter were comparable between the international local brands. Cap color coding
was inconsistent for international and local brands. Patients were dissatisfied
with the label font size. Patients reported that the international and local
brands were similar in terms of the ease of opening the bottle, instilling a
drop, and the clarity of the instructions; but the local brands were subjectively
easier to squeeze than international brands.
WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to compare bottle
characteristics of local Saudi Arabia brands with international brands. The
bottle characteristics and patient feedback were similar between the local and
international topical glaucoma medications. However, there were differences
between the local and international brands in drug volume, bottle squeezability. 
Hence, patient compliance and drop dosage may differ based on the origin of
manufacture.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-9233.194077 
PMCID: PMC5141622
PMID: 27994392  [PubMed - in process]


103. Ann Indian Acad Neurol. 2016 Oct-Dec;19(4):528.

Vitamin D deficiency in antiphospholipid syndrome.

Venugopal NP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuro-ophthalmology Clinic and Glaucoma Service, AG Eye
Hospital, Trichy, Tamil Nadu, India.

DOI: 10.4103/0972-2327.194464 
PMCID: PMC5144481
PMID: 27994369  [PubMed]


104. Am J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 16. pii: S0002-9394(16)30598-0. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2016.12.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Adherence to Fixed-Combination Versus Unfixed Travoprost 0.004%/Timolol 0.5% for 
Glaucoma or Ocular Hypertension: a Randomized Trial.

Barnebey HS(1), Robin AL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Specialty Eyecare Centre, 1920 116th Avenue NE, Bellvue, WA 98004. Electronic 
address: hbarnebey@specialtyeyecarecentre.com. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
Johns Hopkins University, 600 N. Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21287; Bloomberg
School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, 615 N. Wolfe Street,
Baltimore, MD 21205; University of Maryland, 419 W. Redwood Street, Baltimore, MD
21201; University of Michigan, 1000 Wall Street, Ann Arbor, MI 48105.

PURPOSE: To assess adherence to treatment with fixed-combination travoprost
0.004%/timolol 0.5% (TTFC) compared with separate containers of travoprost 0.004%
and timolol 0.5% (TRAV+TIM; unfixed) using electronic dosing aids DESIGN:
Randomized, controlled, observer-masked clinical trial METHODS: Setting: Two US
clinical sites Patient Population: Eligible patients were adults diagnosed with
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Patients (n=81) were sequentially
randomized 1:1 to receive TTFC or TRAV+TIM for 12 months.
INTERVENTION: TTFC was administered once daily in the morning or evening with a
single dosing aid. Patients randomized to TRAV+TIM administered TRAV once daily
in the evening and TIM once daily in the morning using separate dosing aids.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Adherence with administered medication, as recorded by the 
dosing aids RESULTS: Mean ± SD patient age was 60±10 years; most patients were
male and white. Compared with TRAV+TIM (n=40), patients receiving TTFC (n=41)
were consistently adherent on a greater percentage of days through month 12 (60% 
vs 43%). At months 1, 3, 6, and 12, 80% adherence was achieved by 71% vs 38%, 53%
vs 30%, 45% vs 16%, and 32% vs 11% of patients receiving TTFC vs TRAV+TIM,
respectively. Significantly more patients were adherent on ≥80% of days with TTFC
compared with TRAV+TIM (P<0.001 to P=0.041). Both treatments reduced IOP from
baseline, and no safety issues were identified in either group. Ocular hyperemia 
was the most common treatment-related adverse event (n=3/group).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients receiving TTFC maintained better treatment adherence
compared with patients receiving TRAV+TIM through 12 months of on-therapy
evaluation. This suggests that, for patients requiring multiple IOP-lowering
medications, a fixed combination may provide improved long-term adherence
compared with unfixed therapy.

Copyright © 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.12.002 
PMID: 27993589  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


105. Ophthalmology. 2016 Dec 16. pii: S0161-6420(16)32004-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.11.011. [Epub ahead of print]

Myocilin Predictive Genetic Testing for Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma Leads to
Early Identification of At-Risk Individuals.

Souzeau E(1), Tram KH(1), Witney M(1), Ruddle JB(2), Graham SL(3), Healey PR(4), 
Goldberg I(4), Mackey DA(5), Hewitt AW(6), Burdon KP(7), Craig JE(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre,
Adelaide, Australia. (2)Centre for Eye Research Australia, Royal Victorian Eye & 
Ear Hospital, Melbourne, Australia; and Ophthalmology, University of Melbourne,
Department of Surgery, Melbourne, Australia. (3)Ophthalmology and Vision Science,
Faculty of Medicine and Human Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia; 
Discipline of Ophthalmology, Eye Associates, Sydney Eye Hospital, University of
Sydney, Sydney, Australia. (4)Discipline of Ophthalmology, Eye Associates, Sydney
Eye Hospital, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia. (5)Centre for
Ophthalmology and Visual Science, University of Western Australia, Lions Eye
Institute, Perth, Australia; Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University
of Tasmania, Hobart, Australia. (6)Centre for Eye Research Australia, Royal
Victorian Eye & Ear Hospital, Melbourne, Australia; and Ophthalmology, University
of Melbourne, Department of Surgery, Melbourne, Australia; Menzies Institute for 
Medical Research, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Australia. (7)Department of
Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, Australia;
Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania, Hobart,
Australia. (8)Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Flinders Medical 
Centre, Adelaide, Australia. Electronic address: jamie.craig@flinders.edu.au.

PURPOSE: To assess the difference in severity of disease in primary open-angle
glaucoma (POAG) patients with a Myocilin (MYOC) disease-causing variant who
presented through normal clinical pathways (Clinical cases) versus those who were
examined following genetic testing (Genetic cases).
DESIGN: Retrospective clinical and molecular study.
PARTICIPANTS: Seventy-three MYOC mutation carriers identified through the
Australian and New Zealand Registry of Advanced Glaucoma.
METHODS: Individuals were classified based on how they first presented to an
ophthalmologist: Clinical cases were referred by their general practitioner or
optometrist, and Genetic cases were referred following positive results from
genetic testing for the previously identified familial MYOC variant (cascade
genetic testing). All cases were then sub-classified into 4 groups (unaffected,
glaucoma suspect, glaucoma, advanced glaucoma) according to the severity of
disease at the time of their first examination by an ophthalmologist.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Glaucoma clinical parameters and age at presentation.
RESULTS: At their first examination, 83% of Genetic cases were unaffected and 17%
were glaucoma suspect, whereas among Clinical cases 44% were glaucoma suspect,
28% had glaucoma, and 28% had advanced glaucoma. Genetic cases were significantly
younger at presentation than Clinical cases (40.6±12.5 vs. 47.5±16.7 years; P =
0.018). The mean highest intraocular pressure (32.2±9.7 vs. 17.6±3.6 mmHg; P <
0.001), cup-to-disc ratio (0.65±0.27 vs. 0.48±0.13; P = 0.006), and mean
deviation on visual field testing (-10.0±10.3 vs. -1.2±1.2; P < 0.001) were all
significantly worse in Clinical cases compared with Genetic cases. Individuals
with common MYOC p.Gln368Ter variant were further analyzed separately to account 
for the phenotypic variability of different disease-causing variants. All
findings remained significant after adjusting for the common MYOC p.Gln368Ter
variant.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrated that MYOC cascade genetic testing for POAG
allows identification of at-risk individuals at an early stage or even before
signs of glaucoma are present. To our knowledge, this is the first study to
demonstrate the clinical utility of predictive genetic testing for MYOC glaucoma.

Copyright © 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.11.011 
PMID: 27993484  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


106. Ophthalmology. 2017 Jan;124(1):73. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.07.025.

Optic Disc Shape Change With Glaucomatous Progression.

Gupta S(1), Dubey S(2), Gupta V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dr. Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, All India Institute of
Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India. (2)Glaucoma Services, Dr. Shroff's Charity
Eye Hospital, New Delhi, India.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.07.025 
PMID: 27993266  [PubMed - in process]


107. Int Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 19. [Epub ahead of print]

Refractive outcome of combined phacoemulsification and endoscopic
cyclophotocoagulation.

Kang S(1), Luk S(2), Han H(2), Cordeiro MF(2,)(3,)(4), Ahmed F(2,)(3), Bloom
P(2,)(3), Crawley L(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, The Western Eye Hospital, 153-173
Marylebone Road, London, NW1 5QH, UK. swan_kang@hotmail.com. (2)Imperial College 
Healthcare NHS Trust, The Western Eye Hospital, 153-173 Marylebone Road, London, 
NW1 5QH, UK. (3)Imperial College London, London, UK. (4)Glaucoma and Retinal
Neuro-degeneration Research Group, UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK.

PURPOSE: To compare the refractive outcome of eyes that underwent
phacoemulsification combined with endoscopic cyclophotocoagulation (phaco-ECP)
with the eyes that underwent phacoemulsification alone.
METHODS: A retrospective case series review of 103 consecutive eyes that
underwent phaco-ECP and 62 eyes that underwent phacoemulsification between
January 2006 and August 2012 was conducted. Post-operative refractive outcomes
were obtained by subjective refraction or autorefraction. Demographic data, best 
corrected visual acuity, intraocular pressure, number of glaucoma agents and mean
deviation of the Humphrey visual field test (MD) were also analysed.
RESULTS: The total number of eyes included in the study was 62 eyes for the
phaco-ECP group and 62 eyes for the control group who underwent
phacoemulsification alone. More than 90% of eyes (n = 56) in phaco-ECP group
achieved post-operative refraction within ±1 dioptre (D) of the target
refraction. In the control group, 100% of eyes achieved post-operative refraction
within ±1D of the target refraction. When comparing the difference between the
target and the actual refractive outcome between the phaco-ECP and the control
group, there was no statistically significant difference.
CONCLUSIONS: Refractive outcome after phaco-ECP is comparable to
phacoemulsification alone. This study suggests that the intraocular lens power
can be selected for cataract surgery alone and that ECP does not change the
effective lens position significantly; therefore, no modification of biometry
formulae is required. Phaco-ECP should be considered as an effective, safe and
predictable surgical treatment option for glaucoma patients with co-existing
cataract.

DOI: 10.1007/s10792-016-0411-4 
PMID: 27990622  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


108. Int J Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 18;9(11):1684-1690. eCollection 2016.

Management of glaucoma in pregnancy: risks or choices, a dilemma?

Sethi HS(1), Naik M(1), Gupta VS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, V.M.M.C & Safdarjung Hospital, Newdelhi 110029,
India.

The treatment of glaucoma in and around pregnancy offers the unique challenge of 
balancing the risk of vision loss to the mother as against the potential harm to 
the fetus or newborn. Most anti-glaucoma drugs (i.e. beta-blockers, prostaglandin
analogues, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors topical and systemic, cholinergics,
anticholinesterases, and apraclonidine) are considered category C agents and
ophthalmologists are usually limited to treating patients with the category B
drugs of brimonidine and dipivefrin. Brimonidine is generally the preferred
first-line drug in the first, second and early third trimester. Late in the third
trimester, brimonidine should be discontinued because it can induce central
nervous system depression in newborns wherein topical carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors may be the optimal choice. Glaucoma surgery can be performed with
caution in second and third trimester if the patients have a strong indication
for the procedure. However, anesthetics, sedative agents, and antimetabolites
still have potential risk for the fetus. Argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) or
selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) is an alternative treatment that can be
performed in all trimesters. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and β-blockers are
certified by the American Academy of Pediatrics for use during nursing. However, 
low doses of these medications should be considered when used in the breast
feeding period. Optimum treatment for glaucoma in pregnancy must not be withheld 
so as to prevent any further deterioration in progressive vision loss and quality
of life.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2016.11.24 
PMCID: PMC5145101
PMID: 27990376  [PubMed - in process]


109. Int J Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 18;9(11):1651-1656. eCollection 2016.

Retinal nerve fiber layer thickness changes in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome: 
a systematic review and Meta-analysis.

Wang JS(1), Xie HT(1), Jia Y(1), Zhang MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430022, Hubei Province, China.

AIM: To evaluate the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness changes in
patients with obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS), and detect possible
prevalence of glaucoma in this population.
METHODS: Comprehensive studies were conducted on the Cochrane Library, PubMed and
Embase through March, 2015. Only studies that fit the selection criteria about
RNFL and OSAS would be included. For the measures, we calculated the 95%
confidence interval (CI) and weighted mean differences (WMD). The systematic
review and Meta-analysis was performed by RevMan 5.2 software.
RESULTS: Nine case-control studies were analyzed containing a total of 1086 cases
and 580 controls. Average RNFL thickness in OSAS was reduced significantly
compared with healthy controls in random effects model (WMD=-2.56, 95% CI: -4.82 
to -0.31, P =0.003, I(2)=57%). A significant RNFL thickness reduction were found 
between the two groups in inferior quadrant (WMD=-3.11, 95% CI: -5.53 to -0.69,
P=0.01), superior quadrant (WMD=-2.37, 95%CI: -4.7 to 0.04, P=0.05). In nasal
quadrant (WMD=-2.54, 95% CI: -6.53 to 1.45, P=0.21) and temporal quadrant
(WMD=-1.26, 95% CI: -2.19 to 0.47, P=0.15) there was no difference of RNFL
thickness between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: The results show that RNFL thickness is lower in patients with
moderate or severe OSAS than in normal subjects or patients with mild OSAS
according to the nine homogeneity studies.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2016.11.19 
PMCID: PMC5145096
PMID: 27990371  [PubMed - in process]


110. Int J Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 18;9(11):1624-1628. eCollection 2016.

Comparison of ICare and IOPen vs Goldmann applanation tonometry according to
international standards 8612 in glaucoma patients.

Pahlitzsch M(1), Brünner J(2), Gonnermann J(2), Maier AB(2), Torun N(2),
Bertelmann E(2), Klamann MK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma and Retinal Degeneration Research Group, UCL, Institute of
Ophthalmology, Bath Street, London, EC1V 9EL, United Kingdom. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Campus Virchow Clinic, Charite University Medicine, Augustenburger
Platz 1, Berlin13353, Germany.

AIM: To compare IOPen and ICare rebound tonometry to Goldmann applanation
tonometry (GAT) according to International Standards Organization (ISO) 8612
criteria.
METHODS: Totally 191 eyes (n=107 individuals) were included. Criteria of ISO 8612
were fulfilled: 3 clusters of IOP, measured by GAT, were formed. The GAT results 
were given as mean±standard deviation.
RESULTS: GAT (19.7±0.5 mm Hg) showed a significant correlation to ICare (19.8±0.5
mm Hg) (r=0.547, P<0.001) and IOPen (19.5±0.5 mm Hg) (r=0.526, P<0.001).
According to ISO 8612 criteria in all 3 IOP groups the number of outliers (of the
95% limits of agreement) exceeded 5% for ICare and IOPen vs GAT: No.1 (n=68)
29.4% and 22.1%, No.2 (n=62) 35.5% and 37.1%, No.3 (n=61) 26.2% and 42.6%,
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The strict requirements of the ISO 8612 are not fulfilled in a
glaucoma collective by ICare and IOPen at present. As long as the Goldmann
tonometry is applicable it should be used first of all for reproducible IOP
readings. ICare and IOPen tonometry should be considered as an alternative tool, 
if application of Goldmann tonometry is not possible.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2016.11.14 
PMCID: PMC5145091
PMID: 27990366  [PubMed - in process]


111. J Ophthalmol. 2016;2016:1727039. Epub 2016 Nov 20.

Agreement between Gonioscopic Examination and Swept Source Fourier Domain
Anterior Segment Optical Coherence Tomography Imaging.

Rigi M(1), Bell NP(2), Lee DA(2), Baker LA(1), Chuang AZ(3), Nguyen D(2), Minnal 
VR(2), Feldman RM(2), Blieden LS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Robert Cizik Eye Clinic, 6400 Fannin St., Suite 1800, Houston, TX 77030, USA. 
(2)Robert Cizik Eye Clinic, 6400 Fannin St., Suite 1800, Houston, TX 77030, USA; 
Ruiz Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, McGovern Medical School at
The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston (UTHealth), 6431 Fannin 
St., MSB 7.024, Houston, TX 77030, USA. (3)Ruiz Department of Ophthalmology and
Visual Science, McGovern Medical School at The University of Texas Health Science
Center at Houston (UTHealth), 6431 Fannin St., MSB 7.024, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Purpose. To evaluate interobserver, intervisit, and interinstrument agreements
for gonioscopy and Fourier domain anterior segment optical coherence tomography
(FD ASOCT) for classifying open and narrow angle eyes. Methods. Eighty-six eyes
with open or narrow anterior chamber angles were included. The superior angle was
classified open or narrow by 2 of 5 glaucoma specialists using gonioscopy and
imaged by FD ASOCT in the dark. The superior angle of each FD ASOCT image was
graded as open or narrow by 2 masked readers. The same procedures were repeated
within 6 months. Kappas for interobserver and intervisit agreements for each
instrument and interinstrument agreements were calculated. Results. The mean age 
was 50.9 (±18.4) years. Interobserver agreements were moderate to good for both
gonioscopy (0.57 and 0.69) and FD ASOCT (0.58 and 0.75). Intervisit agreements
were moderate to excellent for both gonioscopy (0.53 to 0.86) and FD ASOCT (0.57 
and 0.85). Interinstrument agreements were fair to good (0.34 to 0.63), with FD
ASOCT classifying more angles as narrow than gonioscopy. Conclusions. Both
gonioscopy and FD ASOCT examiners were internally consistent with similar
interobserver and intervisit agreements for angle classification. Agreement
between instruments was fair to good, with FD ASOCT classifying more angles as
narrow than gonioscopy.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/1727039 
PMCID: PMC5136403
PMID: 27990300  [PubMed - in process]


112. Case Rep Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 17;7(3):239-244.

A Case of Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy with HIV Infection in Which HAART
Possibly Influenced the Prognosis of Visual Function.

Kitagaki T(1), Sato T(1), Hirai J(1), Kimura D(1), Kakurai K(1), Fukumoto M(1),
Tajiri K(1), Kobayashi T(1), Kida T(1), Kojima S(1), Ikeda T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka Medical College, Takatsuki, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We report on a patient with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) 
and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection who exhibited extremely active
PDR followed by a rapid onset of blindness in the right eye. The progression of
visual disturbance in the patient's left eye was slowed after starting highly
active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART), and vision in that eye was rescued after 
vitrectomy.
CASE REPORT: A 72-year-old male developed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia stemming
from an HIV infection and began HAART at the Department of Hematology, Osaka
Medical College, Takatsuki City, Japan. Prior to HAART, the patient had shown
rapidly progressing retinopathy in the right eye accompanied by vitreous
hemorrhage, tractional retinal detachment, and neovascular glaucoma, ultimately
leading to early-onset blindness. After starting HAART, the progression of the
retinopathy in the left eye became slower compared to the right eye, with
corrected visual acuity improving to 0.6 after vitrectomy, despite being
accompanied by vitreous hemorrhage. The patient's overall condition has remained 
stable following the operation, and the condition of the ocular fundus in the
left eye has also settled.
CONCLUSION: Significant differences were found in the progression rate of PDR
with HIV infection between before and after starting HAART. Our findings suggest 
that early administration of HAART to HIV patients with diabetic retinopathy is
crucial for maintaining visual function.

DOI: 10.1159/000452789 
PMCID: PMC5156889
PMID: 27990117  [PubMed]


113. Case Rep Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 14;7(3):233-238.

Combined Acute Haemolytic and Secondary Angle Closure Glaucoma following
Spontaneous Intraocular Haemorrhages in a Patient on Warfarin.

Andreatta W(1), Boukouvala S(1), Bansal A(1).

Author information: 
(1)University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, Coventry, UK.

BACKGROUND: To report the first described case of combined haemolytic and acute
angle closure glaucoma secondary to spontaneous intraocular haemorrhages in a
patient on excessive anticoagulation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the
first case reported in the literature presenting with raised intraocular pressure
due to both mechanisms.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 90-year-old woman presented with acute pain and reduction in 
vision in the left eye. Her intraocular pressure (IOP) was 55 mm Hg. There were
red tinted blood cells in the anterior chamber giving it a reddish hue. The
patient was known to have advanced wet macular degeneration. She was taking oral 
warfarin for atrial fibrillation. Her international normalised ratio (INR) was
7.7. B-scan ultrasound of posterior segment showed vitreous and suprachoroidal
haemorrhages. An ultrabiomicroscopic examination confirmed open angles. A
diagnosis of haemolytic glaucoma secondary to intraocular haemorrhages was made. 
The IOP was controlled medically. Warfarin was withdrawn and oral vitamin K
therapy was initiated leading to a rapid INR reduction. Three days later, her
anterior chamber became progressively shallower causing a secondary acute angle
closure which was managed medically. After 2 months, the left IOP was
well-controlled without any medications and the eye was not inflamed. Her vision 
in that eye remained perception of light.
CONCLUSION: Patients with suprachoroidal haemorrhages should be closely monitored
as they might subsequently develop acute angle closure despite an initially open 
angle and well-controlled INR and IOP. Excessive anticoagulation needs to be
prevented to minimise the risk of sight-threatening complications.

DOI: 10.1159/000452440 
PMCID: PMC5155631
PMID: 27990116  [PubMed]


114. Orv Hetil. 2016 Dec;157(51):2048-2050.

[Unaffected child born following preimplantation genetic diagnosis with
karyomapping].

[Article in Hungarian]

Nánássy L(1), Téglás G(1), Csenki M(1), Vereczkey A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Versys Clinics Human Reprodukciós Intézet Budapest, Madarász V. u. 47-49., 7. 
emelet, 1138.

Preimplantation genetic diagnosis for single gene defects is a well established
method in assisted reproductive technologies. Karyomapping is a genome wide
parental haplotyping using a high density single nucleotide polymorphism array
that allows the diagnosis of any single gene defects. A couple with an affected
child with primary congenital glaucoma attended at our clinic. Six
oocyte-cumulus-complex was retrieved and all three mature oocytes were
inseminated. One zygote showed the signs of normal fertilization and was cultured
for five days. Trophectoderm biopsy and karyomapping analysis were carried out.
Result showed a heterozygous carrier for primary congenital glaucoma. Embryo was 
thawed and transferred and a healthy girl was delivered at term. Here we report
the first live birth following in vitro fertilization combined with
preimplantation genetic diagnosis using karyomapping in Hungary. Karyomapping is 
able to accurately detect single gene disorders from a limited amount of samples 
without a significant preclinical workup. Orv. Hetil., 2016, 157(51), 2048-2050.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2016.30619 
PMID: 27989225  [PubMed - in process]


115. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 18. doi: 10.1111/aos.13337. [Epub ahead of print]

Macular thickness in healthy eyes of adults (N = 4508) and relation to sex, age
and refraction: the Tromsø Eye Study (2007-2008).

von Hanno T(1,)(2), Lade AC(3), Mathiesen EB(1,)(4), Peto T(5), Njølstad I(6),
Bertelsen G(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Brain and Circulation Research Group, Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty
of Health Sciences, UiT The Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Nordland Hospital, Bodø, Norway. (3)Department of
Rehabilitation, University Hospital of North Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(4)Department of Neurology, University Hospital of North Norway, Tromsø, Norway. 
(5)Centre of Public Health, Queen's University, Belfast, UK. (6)Research Group of
Epidemiology of Chronic Diseases, Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of
Health Sciences, UiT The Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology and Neurosurgery, University Hospital of North
Norway, Tromsø, Norway.

PURPOSE: To provide sex-stratified normative data on retinal thickness and study 
the relationship with sex, age and refractive status.
METHODS: Population-based study including 2617 women and 1891 men, aged 38-87
(mean 61 ± 8) years, without diabetes, glaucoma and retinal diseases, and
spherical equivalent refraction (SER) within ±6 dioptres. Retinal thickness was
measured with optical coherence tomography (spectral domain Cirrus HD-OCT).
RESULTS: Women had thinner retina than men. Retinal thickness was significantly
associated with refraction, where mean change in retinal thickness per 1 D
increase in SER was -1.3 (0.2) μm in the fovea, 0.7 (0.1) μm in the pericentral
ring and 1.4 (0.1) μm in the peripheral ring. In the fovea, there was a
non-monotonic curved relationship between retinal thickness and age in both sexes
with a maximum at about 60 years (p < 0.001). In the pericentral ring, the mean
reduction in retinal thickness per 10-year increase was 2.7 (0.3) μm in women and
4.0 (0.4) μm in men and corresponding results in the peripheral ring were 2.3
(0.3) μm in women and 2.6 (0.4) μm in men. In both regions, there was evidence
for a nonlinear pattern with an increased rate of change with higher age. There
was a significant interaction between sex and age for retinal thickness of the
pericentral ring (p = 0.041).
CONCLUSION: Women had thinner retina than men, and thickness varied with
refractive status. Retinal thickness was associated with age in all macular
regions, and the rate of change in retinal thickness varied at different ages.

© 2016 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on
behalf of Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13337 
PMID: 27989016  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


116. Mater Sci Eng C Mater Biol Appl. 2017 Feb 1;71:529-540. doi:
10.1016/j.msec.2016.10.017. Epub 2016 Oct 15.

A novel nanoparticles impregnated ocular insert for enhanced bioavailability to
posterior segment of eye: In vitro, in vivo and stability studies.

Rathod LV(1), Kapadia R(1), Sawant KK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Drug Delivery Research Laboratory, Centre of relevance and Excellence in NDDS,
Faculty of Pharmacy, The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, Donor's Plaza, 
Fatehgunj, Vadodara 390002, India. (2)Drug Delivery Research Laboratory, Centre
of relevance and Excellence in NDDS, Faculty of Pharmacy, The Maharaja Sayajirao 
University of Baroda, Donor's Plaza, Fatehgunj, Vadodara 390002, India.
Electronic address: dr_krutikasawant@rediffmail.com.

The present investigation was carried out to demonstrate with the help of in
vitro and in vivo studies that nanoparticles impregnated ocular inserts
effectively delivers significant concentration of drug to the posterior segment
of eye after topical administration for treatment of glaucoma. Drug loaded
Nanoparticles and their ocular insert have been reported to reduce side effects
of orally administered Acetazolamide. Eudragit NPs were prepared by the solvent
diffusion nanoprecipitation technique. The prepared NPs were evaluated for
various parameters such as particle size, zeta potential, % entrapment
efficiency, % drug loading, DSC, FTIR, TEM and stability studies. Ocular inserts 
of NPs were prepared by solvent casting method. The prepared ocular inserts were 
evaluated for thickness, content uniformity, folding endurance, disintegration
time, morphology and stability study. The NPs and ocular inserts were evaluated
for in-vitro drug diffusion study, ex-vivo trans-corneal permeability study,
in-vivo ocular tolerability and intra ocular pressure (IOP) reduction study. The 
optimized batch was stable for a period of 3months in lyophilized form. The
optimized formulations had size range of 367nm±8nm, zeta potential around
+7mV±1.3mV and 51.61%±3.84% entrapment efficiency with 19%±1.40% drug loading.
The ex-vivo trans-corneal study showed higher cumulative corneal permeation, flux
across corneal tissue (2.460±0.028μg/ml) and apparent corneal permeability
(3.926×10(-6)cm(2)/s & 3.863×10(-6)cm(2)/s) from drug loaded Eudragit NPs and
Ocular inserts as compared to drug solution (0.671±0.020μg/ml &
3.166×10(-6)cm(2)/s). In-vivo study showed the Eudragit NPs and ocular insert
produced significant (P<0.001) lowering in intra ocular pressure compared with
the solution of free drug after 3h of topical ocular administration. Plain
Eudragit NPs caused no inflammation and/or discomfort in rabbit eyes and neither 
affected the intra ocular pressure establishing their safety and non irritancy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msec.2016.10.017 
PMID: 27987741  [PubMed - in process]


117. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2016 Dec;233(12):1331-1336. Epub 2016 Dec 16.

[Phenomenology and Clinical Relevance of the Flammer Syndrome].

[Article in German]

Konieczka K(1), Flammer J(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Basel, Department of Ophthalmology, Switzerland.

The Flammer syndrome (FS) describes the phenotype of people with a predisposition
for an altered reaction of the blood vessels to stimuli like coldness, emotional 
stress or high altitude. Frequent symptoms are: cold hands and/or feet, low blood
pressure, prolonged sleep onset time, reduced feeling of thirst, increased
sensitivity to odour, pain, vibration and certain drugs. SF subjects are often
ambitious and successful but also perfectionistic and sometimes brooding.
Frequent signs are: altered gene expression, prolonged blood flow cessation in
nailfold capillaroscopy after cold provocation, reduced autoregulation of ocular 
blood flow, and reduced vasodilation after stimulation with flickering light.
Retinal venous pressure is on the average higher and retinal astrocytes are more 
often activated. FS occurs more often in females than in males, in thin than in
obese subjects, in young than in old people, in graduates than in blue collar
workers, in subjects with indoor than outdoor jobs. Associated diseases are:
normal tension glaucoma, occlusion of ocular vessels, retinitis pigmentosa,
multiple sclerosis, tinnitus or even sudden hearing loss.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0042-118881 
PMID: 27984835  [PubMed - in process]


118. Retina. 2016 Dec 14. [Epub ahead of print]

LONG-TERM ANATOMICAL AND FUNCTIONAL OUTCOMES FOLLOWING VITRECTOMY FOR ADVANCED
COATS DISEASE.

Karacorlu M(1), Hocaoglu M, Sayman Muslubas I, Arf S.

Author information: 
(1)Istanbul Retina Institute, Istanbul, Turkey.

PURPOSE: To assess the long-term anatomical and functional results of
vitreoretinal surgery in patients with advanced Coats disease.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of 23 patients who underwent 23-gauge pars plana 
vitrectomy combined with transscleral cryotherapy, laser photocoagulation, and
intraocular tamponade between 2005 and 2014 and had a follow-up of at least 1
year. The primary outcomes were mean visual acuity and anatomical success.
RESULTS: The average age at the time of surgery was 8.7 ± 1.3 years (range, 2-18 
years). The mean follow-up period was 55.2 ± 31 months (range, 12-120 months). In
16 eyes (70%), further treatment was not necessary. In the remaining 7 patients
(30%), revision surgery with silicone oil tamponade was required. In 20 eyes
(87%), the retina was reattached. At the final visit, 8 eyes (35%) had improved
mean Snellen visual acuity from 20/1,000 at initial presentation to 20/160, 3
eyes (13%) showed stabilization, and 6 eyes (26%) had decline in visual acuity.
No enucleation was necessary, and no progression to neovascular glaucoma was
observed.
CONCLUSION: Pars plana vitrectomy combined with cryotherapy, laser
photocoagulation, and intraocular tamponade could be an effective treatment
option for advanced Coats disease. Despite surgery, disease-related complications
remained high, but the main aim of management in these young patients is
functional and anatomical stability.

DOI: 10.1097/IAE.0000000000001415 
PMID: 27984550  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


119. J Neuroophthalmol. 2016 Dec 14. [Epub ahead of print]

Reversible Charles Bonnet Syndrome After Oculoplastic Procedures.

Beaulieu RA(1), Tamboli DA, Armstrong BK, Hogan RN, Mancini R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, Texas.

Individuals with Charles Bonnet syndrome (CBS) typically have severe visual loss 
and experience visual hallucinations yet have no psychiatric disease. Visual
impairment often is due to end-stage glaucoma or macular degeneration. We report 
3 cases of CBS in patients who underwent an oculoplastic surgical procedure. One 
patient experienced binocular visual distortion due to excessive topical
ophthalmic ointment, and 2 patients experienced monocular visual impairment from 
patching. Visual hallucinations resolved once vision returned to baseline. We
highlight the possibility of transient CBS in postoperative patients who have
temporary iatrogenic vision impairment in one or both eyes.

DOI: 10.1097/WNO.0000000000000477 
PMID: 27984353  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


120. Eye (Lond). 2016 Dec 16. doi: 10.1038/eye.2016.273. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinical outcomes of Ahmed glaucoma valve in anterior chamber versus ciliary
sulcus.

Bayer A(1), Önol M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dünyagöz Ankara Hospital, Glaucoma Department, Ankara, Turkey.

PurposeTo evaluate the outcomes of Ahmed glaucoma valve (AGV) tube insertion
through the anterior chamber angle (ACA) or through the ciliary sulcus
(CS).Patients and methodsIn this case-control study, we retrospectively reviewed 
the charts of consecutive glaucoma patients who had undergone AGV implantation
either through the ACA or the CS between March 2009 and December 2014. The main
outcome measures were intraocular pressure (IOP), number of glaucoma medications 
prescribed, best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), glaucoma type, success rate,
complications, and survival ratios. Statistical analysis was carried out using
SPSS.ResultsThere were 68 eyes in the ACA group and 35 eyes in the CS group.
There were no significant differences between the groups for age, sex,
laterality, IOP, preoperative glaucoma medication number, BCVA or glaucoma type
(P>0.05). The postoperative follow-up period was 27.2±16.5 months and 30.2±17.7
months for the ACA and the CS groups (P=0.28); IOP values were significantly
reduced at the last visit to 16.4±7.2 mm Hg and 14.4±6.8 mm Hg. The difference in
the last-visit IOP between the groups was not significant (P=0.06), but the IOP
reduction ratio was higher in the CS group (P=0.03). There was no significant
difference in the number of postoperative medications (P=0.18). Postoperative
complications were similar, but the incidence of flat anterior chamber was higher
in the ACA group (P=0.05).ConclusionsThe use of an AGV can control IOP in the
majority of cases whether placed in the ACA or the CS. The IOP reduction ratio
seemed to be higher in the CS group.Eye advance online publication, 16 December
2016; doi:10.1038/eye.2016.273.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2016.273 
PMID: 27983734  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


121. Eye (Lond). 2016 Dec 16. doi: 10.1038/eye.2016.278. [Epub ahead of print]

Why autophagy is good for retinal ganglion cells?

Boya P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Autophagy Lab, Centro de
Investigaciones Biológicas, CSIC, Madrid, Spain.

Autophagy is a catabolic pathway that promotes the degradation and recycling of
cellular components. Proteins, lipids, and even whole organelles are engulfed in 
autophagosomes and delivered to the lysosome for elimination. In response to
stress, autophagy mediates the degradation of cell components, which are recycled
to generate the nutrients and building blocks required to sustain cellular
homeostasis. Moreover, it has an important role in cellular quality control,
particularly in neurons, in which the total burden of altered proteins and
damaged organelles cannot be reduced by redistribution to daughter cells through 
cell division. Autophagy occurs in all cells and tissues, and it is regulated by 
the Atg genes. The importance of this pathway has been recently recognized by the
Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine award to Professor Yoshinori Ohsumi who
was the discoverer of the first Atg genes in yeast in the 1990s. Research has
only begun to examine the role of autophagy in the visual system. Both the retina
and the eye are exposed to a variety of environmental insults and stressors,
including genetic mutations and age-associated alterations that impair their
function. Here, we review studies that have sought to explain autophagy's
importance for retinal ganglion cells, and their implications for diseases like
glaucoma and optic neuropathies.Eye advance online publication, 16 December 2016;
doi:10.1038/eye.2016.278.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2016.278 
PMID: 27983732  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


122. Molecules. 2016 Dec 15;21(12). pii: E1726.

Polyamines and α-Carbonic Anhydrases.

Scozzafava A(1), Supuran CT(2), Carta F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio di Chimica Bioinorganica, Università degli Studi di Firenze, Rm.
188, Via della Lastruccia 3, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino, Florence, Italy.
andrea.scozzafava@unifi.it. (2)NEUROFARBA Department, University of Florence,
Sezione di Scienze Farmaceutiche, Via Ugo Schiff 6, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino,
Florence, Italy. claudiu.supuran@unifi.it. (3)NEUROFARBA Department, University
of Florence, Sezione di Scienze Farmaceutiche, Via Ugo Schiff 6, 50019 Sesto
Fiorentino, Florence, Italy. fabrizio.carta@unifi.it.

Natural products represent a straightforward source for molecular structures
bearing a vast array of chemical features and potentially useful for biomedical
purposes. Recent examples of this type include the discovery of the coumarins and
the polyamine natural products as atypical chemotypes for the inhibition of the
metalloenzymes carbonic anhydrases (CAs; EC 4.2.2.1). CA enzymes are established 
pharmacological targets for important pathologies, which, among others, include
glaucoma, hypoxic tumors, and central nervous system (CNS)-affecting diseases.
Moreover, they are expressed in many bacteria, fungi and helminths which are the 
etiological agents of the majority of infectious diseases. In this context,
natural products represent the ideal source of new and selective druggable CA
modulators for biomedical purposes. Herein we report the state of the art on
polyamines of natural origin as well as of synthetic derivatives as inhibitors of
human CAs.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules21121726 
PMID: 27983696  [PubMed - in process]


123. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2016 Sep-Oct;79(5):336-338. doi: 10.5935/0004-2749.20160096.

Bilateral acute angle-closure glaucoma as a first presentation of granulomatosis 
with polyangiitis (Wegener's).

Mete A(1), Kimyon S(1), Saygili O(1), Pamukcu C(2), Güngör K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, Gaziantep University,
Gaziantep, Turkey. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Hatem Private Hospital,
Gaziantep, Turkey.

We report a case of bilateral acute angle-closure glaucoma in a patient with
undiagnosed granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener's). A 59-year-old man
presented with a severe headache, ocular pain, blurred vision, shortness of
breath, and mild fever. Clinical examination revealed conjunctival chemosis,
corneal edema, and shallow anterior chambers. Closed angles were observed
bilaterally on gonioscopy. The patient was treated with intravenous mannitol,
oral acetazolamide, and anti-glaucomatous eye drops. Over the following two days,
his vision improved and intraocular pressures decreased. Subsequently, laser
iridotomies were performed bilaterally and the patient attended consultations
with our departments of respiratory medicine, nephrology, and rheumatology and
was subsequently diagnosed with granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Bilateral acute
angle-closure glaucoma is a very rare ocular manifestation of granulomatosis with
polyangiitis. The association of this clinical entity with Wegener's
granulomatosis remains unknown.

DOI: 10.5935/0004-2749.20160096 
PMID: 27982217  [PubMed - in process]


124. Arq Bras Oftalmol. 2016 Sep-Oct;79(5):323-327. doi: 10.5935/0004-2749.20160092.

Repeatability of contrast sensitivity testing in patients with age-related
macular degeneration, glaucoma, and cataract.

Kara S(1), Gencer B(1), Ersan I(1), Arikan S(1), Kocabiyik O(1), Tufan HA(1),
Comez A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Canakkale Onsekiz Mart
University, Canakkale, Turkey.

Purpose:: To analyze the intrasession and intersession repeatability of contrast 
sensitivity (CS) measurements in patients with glaucoma, cataract, or age-related
macular degeneration (AMD) and healthy controls.
Methods:: CS measurements were performed using the OPTEC-Functional Vision
Analyzer (FVA), which uses a standardized and closed (view-in) system.
Measurements for patients with glaucoma, cataract, or AMD and healthy controls
were repeated within 30 minutes (intrasession) and during two sessions
(intersession), separated by one week to one month. Test-retest reliability and
correlation were measured using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and 
coefficient of repeatability (COR).
Results:: Ninety subjects (90 eyes) with visual acuity of 0.17 logMAR or higher
in the cataract group or 0.00 logMAR in the other groups were included. During
the first session, the ICC values were 0.87, 0.90, 0.76, and 0.69, and COR values
were 0.24, 0.20, 0.38, and 0.25 for the control, glaucoma, cataract, and AMD
groups, respectively. The reliability scores significantly improved during the
second session, except in the glaucoma group. There was an acceptable floor
effect and no ceiling effect at higher frequencies in the glaucoma and AMD
groups.
Conclusion:: In subjects with good visual acuity, the FVA system is useful for
evaluating CS and demonstrates good repeatability, as shown by ICC and COR.
Because there is no ceiling effect, this system is beneficial for evaluation of
early changes in CS, particularly in patients with glaucoma or AMD.

DOI: 10.5935/0004-2749.20160092 
PMID: 27982213  [PubMed - in process]


125. Transl Vis Sci Technol. 2016 Dec 14;5(6):15. eCollection 2016.

Glaucoma and Driving Risk under Simulated Fog Conditions.

Diniz-Filho A(1), Boer ER(2), Elhosseiny A(2), Wu Z(2), Nakanishi M(2), Medeiros 
FA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Visual Performance Laboratory, Department of Ophthalmology, University of
California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA ; Department of Ophthalmology and
Otorhinolaryngology, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. 
(2)Visual Performance Laboratory, Department of Ophthalmology, University of
California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.

PURPOSE: We evaluate driving risk under simulated fog conditions in glaucoma and 
healthy subjects.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study included 41 glaucoma patients and 25
age-matched healthy subjects who underwent driving simulation. Tests consisted of
curve negotiation without and with fog preview at 30 m of distance and two
controlled speeds (slow and fast). Inverse time-to-line crossing (invTLC) was
used as metric to quantify risk; higher invTLC values indicating higher risk, as 
less time is available to avoid drifting out of the road. Piecewise regression
models were used to investigate the relationship between differences in invTLC in
fog and nonfog conditions and visual field loss.
RESULTS: Glaucoma patients had greater increase in driving risk under fog
compared to controls, as indicated by invTLC differences (0.490 ± 0.578 s(-1) and
0.208 ± 0.106 s(-1), respectively; P = 0.002). Mean deviation (MD) of the better 
eye was significantly associated with driving risk under fog, with a breakpoint
of -9 dB identified by piecewise regression. For values below the breakpoint,
each 1 dB lower MD of better eye was associated with 0.117 s(-1) higher invTLC
under fast speed (adjusted R(2) = 57.9%; P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma patients have a steeper increase in driving risk under fog 
conditions when compared to healthy subjects, especially when the severity of
visual field damage falls below -9 dB of MD in the better eye.
TRANSLATIONAL RELEVANCE: By investigating the relationship between driving risk
and disease severity breakpoint, this study may provide guidance to clinicians in
recognizing glaucoma patients who may be unfit to drive in complex situations
such as fog.

DOI: 10.1167/tvst.5.6.15 
PMCID: PMC5156445
PMID: 27980878  [PubMed]


126. Transl Vis Sci Technol. 2016 Dec 14;5(6):13. eCollection 2016.

Development of a Pediatric Visual Field Test.

Miranda MA(1), Henson DB(2), Fenerty C(2), Biswas S(3), Aslam T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester,
Manchester, United Kingdom ; Faculty of Brain Sciences, Visual Neurosciences,
Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, London, United Kingdom ;
NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Moorfields Eye Hospital and University College
London Institute of Ophthalmology, London, United Kingdom. (2)Faculty of Biology,
Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom ;
Royal Eye Hospital, NHS Central Manchester University Hospitals, Manchester,
United Kingdom. (3)Royal Eye Hospital, NHS Central Manchester University
Hospitals, Manchester, United Kingdom. (4)Faculty of Biology, Medicine and
Health, The University of Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom ; Royal Eye
Hospital, NHS Central Manchester University Hospitals, Manchester, United Kingdom
; Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: We describe a pediatric visual field (VF) test based on a computer game 
where software and hardware combine to provide an enjoyable test experience.
METHODS: The test software consists of a platform-based computer game presented
to the central VF. A storyline was created around the game as was a structure
surrounding the computer monitor to enhance patients' experience. The patient is 
asked to help the central character collect magic coins (stimuli). To collect
these coins a series of obstacles need to be overcome. The test was presented on 
a Sony PVM-2541A monitor calibrated from a central midpoint with a Minolta CS-100
photometer placed at 50 cm. Measurements were performed at 15 locations on the
screen and the contrast calculated. Retinal sensitivity was determined by
modulating stimulus in size. To test the feasibility of the novel approach 20
patients (4-16 years old) with no history of VF defects were recruited.
RESULTS: For the 14 subjects completing the study, 31 ± 15 data points were
collected on 1 eye of each patient. Mean background luminance and stimulus
contrast were 9.9 ± 0.3 cd/m(2) and 27.9 ± 0.1 dB, respectively. Sensitivity
values obtained were similar to an adult population but variability was
considerably higher - 8.3 ± 9.0 dB.
CONCLUSIONS: Preliminary data show the feasibility of a game-based VF test for
pediatric use. Although the test was well accepted by the target population, test
variability remained very high.
TRANSLATIONAL RELEVANCE: Traditional VF tests are not well tolerated by children.
This study describes a child-friendly approach to test visual fields in the
targeted population.

DOI: 10.1167/tvst.5.6.13 
PMCID: PMC5156444
PMID: 27980876  [PubMed]


127. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;30(6):451-458. Epub 2016 Dec 6.

Macular Ganglion Cell Layer Assessment to Detect Glaucomatous Central Visual
Field Progression.

Moon H(1), Lee JY(1), Sung KR(1), Lee JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College 
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the use of ganglion cell inner plexiform layer (GC-IPL)
thickness, as measured by spectral domain optical coherence tomography, to detect
central visual field (VF) progression.
METHODS: This study included 384 eyes from 384 patients (219 preperimetric and
165 perimetric glaucomatous eyes; average follow-up, 4.3 years). Photographic
assessment of retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) and serial VF analysis were
performed to detect glaucoma progression in the central (within 10°) area. Study 
inclusion required at least five serial spectral domain optical coherence
tomography exams at different visits. The long-term test-retest variability of
average GC-IPL thicknesses was calculated in 110 stable preperimetric
glaucomatous eyes. The sensitivity and specificity of GC-IPL measurements for the
detection of central VF progression were calculated in an event-based analysis
using the calculated variability as a cut-off and were compared with those of
central RNFL photographic assessment.
RESULTS: The intersession test-retest variability, defined as the 95% confidence 
interval, was 1.76 µm for average GC-IPL thickness. The sensitivity and
specificity of the average GC-IPL thickness for detecting central VF progression 
were 60.7% and 78.9%, respectively. Among six sectors, the inferonasal GC-IPL
sector showed the highest sensitivity (53.6%). The sensitivity of the ≥1 sector
GC-IPL to detect central VF progression was significantly higher than that of
central RNFL photographic progression (p = 0.013). Other GC-IPL parameters showed
comparable sensitivity and specificity to detect central VF progression compared 
with RNFL photographic progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Serial GC-IPL measurements show comparable performance in the
detection of central glaucomatous VF progression to RNFL photographic assessment.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2016.30.6.451 
PMCID: PMC5156619
PMID: 27980364  [PubMed - in process]


128. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;30(6):426-433. Epub 2016 Dec 6.

The Relationship between Vitamin D and Glaucoma: A Kangbuk Samsung Health Study.

Kim HT(1), Kim JM(1), Kim JH(2), Lee MY(3), Won YS(4), Lee JY(1), Park KH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Inje University
Sanggye Paik Hospital, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Biostatistics, Kangbuk
Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National 
University Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate the relationship between vitamin D and glaucoma.
METHODS: This retrospective, cross-sectional study included subjects who
underwent a health screening at the Health Screening Center of Kangbuk Samsung
Hospital from August 2012 to July 2013. All fundus photographs were reviewed by
ophthalmologists. The ophthalmologists determined if an eye was glaucomatous
based on the criteria set forth by the International Society of Geographical and 
Epidemiological Ophthalmology and by the appearance of the retinal nerve fiber
layer and optic disc. If the subjects previously underwent an ophthalmologic
examination, they were enrolled based on the documented history. In addition to
fundus photographs, each participant underwent a systemic examination including
blood sampling and sociodemographic and behavioral questionnaires. The subjects
were divided into five groups according to serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D)
level. Multivariate logistic regression models were constructed to assess
possible associations between elevated glaucoma risk and systemic factors with a 
p < 0.2 on univariate analysis.
RESULTS: Of the 169,208 subjects older than 20 years, 123,331 were eligible for
the study. There was no difference in the prevalence of glaucoma according to
quintile of serum 25(OH)D level based on sex (p = 0.412 for males, p = 0.169 for 
females). According to the multivariable-adjusted logistic analysis, the odds
ratio of glaucoma for the fourth quintile was significantly lower than that of
the first quintile in females (odds ratio, 0.713; 95% confidence interval, 0.520 
to 0.979).
CONCLUSIONS: Lower 25(OH)D level was significantly associated with an elevated
risk of glaucoma in females compared with higher 25(OH)D level. Further
evaluation is needed to investigate the relationship between glaucoma and vitamin
D.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2016.30.6.426 
PMCID: PMC5156616
PMID: 27980361  [PubMed - in process]


129. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;30(6):416-425. Epub 2016 Dec 6.

Changes in Corneal Endothelial Cell after Ahmed Glaucoma Valve Implantation and
Trabeculectomy: 1-Year Follow-up.

Kim MS(1), Kim KN(1), Kim CS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Chungnam National University Hospital, Chungnam
National University School of Medicine, Daejeon, Korea.

PURPOSE: To compare changes in corneal endothelial cell density (CECD) after
Ahmed glaucoma valve (AGV) implantation and trabeculectomy.
METHODS: Changes in corneal endothelium in patients that underwent AGV
implantation or trabeculectomy were prospectively evaluated. Corneal specular
microscopy was performed at the central cornea using a non-contact specular
microscope before surgery and 6 months and 12 months after surgery. The CECD,
hexagonality of the endothelial cells, and the coefficient of variation of the
cell areas were compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: Forty eyes of 40 patients with AGV implantation and 28 eyes of 28
patients with trabeculectomy were studied. Intraocular pressure in the AGV
implantation group was significantly higher than that in the trabeculectomy group
(p < 0.001), but there was no significant difference in other clinical variables 
between the two groups. In the AGV implantation group, the mean CECD
significantly decreased by 9.4% at 6 months and 12.3% at 12 months compared with 
baseline values (both, p < 0.001), while it decreased by 1.9% at 6 months and
3.2% at 12 months in the trabeculectomy group (p = 0.027 and p = 0.015,
respectively). The changes at 6 months and 12 months in the AGV implantation
group were significantly higher than those in the trabeculectomy group (p = 0.030
and p = 0.027, respectively). In the AGV implantation group, there was a
significant decrease in the CECD between baseline and 6 months and between 6
months and 12 months (p < 0.001 and p = 0.005, respectively). However, in the
trabeculectomy group, a significant decrease was observed only between baseline
and 6 months (p = 0.027).
CONCLUSIONS: Both the AGV implantation group and the trabeculectomy group showed 
statistically significant decreases in the CECD 1 year after surgery. The
decrease in CECD in the AVG implantation group was greater and persisted longer
than that in the trabeculectomy group.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2016.30.6.416 
PMCID: PMC5156615
PMID: 27980360  [PubMed - in process]


130. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2016 Dec;117(6):601-605. doi:
10.1016/j.anai.2016.06.009.

Safety of intranasal corticosteroids.

Bensch GW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Allergy, Immunology and Asthma Medical Group, Bensch Clinical Research,
Stockton, California. Electronic address: gbensch@comcast.net.

BACKGROUND: Concurrent use of intranasal corticosteroids (INCSs) and inhaled
corticosteroids (ICSs) is indicated for patients who are comorbid for asthma and 
allergic rhinitis. Clinicians need to know the data regarding INCS safety for
their patients with asthma.
OBJECTIVE: To discuss INCS safety data for the use of INCSs in patients with
asthma and allergic rhinitis.
METHODS: INCS safety studies were selected for their relevance to the discussion.
RESULTS: To date, most studies regarding INCS safety are performed in patients
with allergic rhinitis. These studies reveal no evidence of increased risk of
nasal atrophy, and only isolated cases of septal perforation have been reported. 
Evidence of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis suppression is inconsistent and
not clinically significant. Early growth studies indicated that beclomethasone
dipropionate but not other INCSs have systemic effects on growth; however, newer,
larger, and better designed studies are detecting small but significant growth
effects in other INCSs. INCSs do not increase the risk of cataracts or glaucoma, 
although there are anecdotal data on transient elevated intraocular pressure.
Data on concurrent use of INCSs and ICSs are limited, but these limited data
reveal no evidence of systemic effects on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal
axis.
CONCLUSION: More studies of concurrent therapy are needed because concurrent use 
of ICSs and INCSs is common in practice. Clinicians might want to consider
monitoring whether there are risk factors, such as a family history of glaucoma.

Copyright © 2016 American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anai.2016.06.009 
PMID: 27979016  [PubMed - in process]


131. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2016 Dec;117(6):589-594. doi:
10.1016/j.anai.2016.06.017.

Inhaled corticosteroids: Ocular safety and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal
axis.

Carr WW(1), Szefler SJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Allergy & Asthma Associates of Southern California, Southern California
Research, Mission Viejo, California. (2)The Breathing Institute, Children's
Hospital Colorado, University of Colorado Denver, Anschutz Medical Campus,
Aurora, Colorado. Electronic address: Stanley.Szefler@childrenscolorado.org.

BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) effectively deliver corticosteroids to
target sites in the lungs and reduce systemic effects compared with oral
corticosteroids, but long-term systemic exposure from inhaled corticosteroids
remains a concern.
OBJECTIVE: To discuss ICS systemic effects on the eye and the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.
METHODS: Relevant publications were used to augment discussion.
RESULTS: The most common adverse effects of exogenous corticosteroids on the eye 
are secondary open-angle glaucoma and posterior subcapsular cataracts. Study
findings conflict about whether ICS use is associated with increased risk of
glaucoma or elevated intraocular pressure, but studies might not have addressed
the question in the right population. Increased risk of glaucoma may be limited
to a few susceptible individuals, such as individuals with a family history of
glaucoma. Large population-based studies reveal that high daily doses or high
lifetime exposure of ICSs is associated with a higher risk of posterior
subcapsular cataracts. More research is needed to determine the risk from low to 
moderate doses during long periods. For the HPA axis, there are several measures 
for detecting systemic effects. Short-term measures are more sensitive for
detecting the systemic effects of ICSs but have less predictive value in
identifying clinically important adverse effects. Several studies have found that
ICSs have a dose-dependent effects on cortisol suppression that can be used to
estimate equivalent dosages among ICSs.
CONCLUSION: Because of systemic effects on the HPA axis, high doses of ICS should
be avoided where possible. Adult patients undergoing high-dose or long-term ICS
therapy should be monitored for cataracts.

Copyright © 2016 American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anai.2016.06.017 
PMID: 27979014  [PubMed - in process]


132. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2017 Jan;152:90-94. doi: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2016.12.004.
Epub 2016 Dec 8.

Clinical characteristics of headache or facial pain prior to the development of
acute herpes zoster of the head.

Lee HL(1), Yeo M(1), Choi GH(2), Lee JY(2), Kim JS(1), Shin DI(1), Lee SS(1), Lee
SH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Chungbuk National University,
Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Dermatology, College of Medicine, Chungbuk
National University, Republic of Korea. (3)Department of Neurology, College of
Medicine, Chungbuk National University, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
sunghlee@chungbuk.ac.kr.

OBJECTIVES: When physicians encounter patients with headache or facial pain
(preeruptive pain) associated with acute herpes zoster of the head, especially
before the appearance of characteristic skin eruptions (preeruptive phase), they 
typically find it difficult to make clinical impressions and apply appropriate
diagnostic or therapeutic procedures. The objectives of this study were to
describe the clinical characteristics of headache or facial pain associated with 
acute herpes zoster of the head and to elucidate the association between the
manifestation of these symptoms in the preeruptive phase and incoming herpes
zoster.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the clinical features of 152 patients with
acute herpes zoster involving only the head who presented within 10days of rash
onset at Chungbuk National University Hospital, a tertiary hospital in
Chungcheongbuk-do in South Korea, between January 2011 and December 2015.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 54.3±19.8years. One hundred patients
had herpes zoster in the trigeminal nerve, 34 in the nervus intermedius, and 18
in the upper cervical nerves. Preeruptive pain was present in 112 (73.7%)
patients and had a mean duration of 3.0±1.3days (range, 1-6days). Severity of
pain was associated with the presence of preeruptive pain (p=0.040). Headache or 
facial pain was limited to the ipsilateral side of the face and head in all
patients, except for two who had with severe symptoms of meningitis, and was of
moderate to severe intensity (90.1%). Pain of a stabbing nature was observed in
128 (84.2%) patients, and 146 (96.1%) reported experiencing this type of pain for
the first time. Pain awakened 94 (61.8%) patients from sleep. Sixty-one (54.5%)
of the 112 patients with preeruptive pain visited a hospital during the
preeruptive phase; their preeruptive phase was significantly longer (p<0.001) and
more frequently awakened them from sleep (p=0.008). Their presumptive diagnoses
were as follows: tension-type headache (n=20, 32.8%); no decision (n=18, 29.5%); 
herpes zoster (n=5, 8.2%); migraine (n=3, 4.9%); pain associated with upper
respiratory tract infection (n=3, 4.9%); parotitis (n=2, 3.3%); dry eye (n=2,
3.3%); and other (n=1 each: trigeminal neuralgia, glaucoma, pharyngitis,
vestibular neuronitis, tonsillitis, teeth problems, otitis media, and occipital
neuralgia).
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the typical pain of acute herpes zoster of
the head has a stabbing quality, is felt unilaterally, is moderate to severe,
often awakens patients from sleep, and has not been previously experienced by
most patients. When encountering patients with these features accompanied by pain
onset of less than one week, acute herpes zoster of the head should be
considered, even without characteristic vesicles, after excluding other secondary
causes by appropriate diagnostic workup.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2016.12.004 
PMID: 27978460  [PubMed - in process]


133. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Dec;95(50):e5383.

Outcome of primary trabeculotomy ab interno (Trabectome) surgery in patients with
steroid-induced glaucoma.

Ngai P(1), Kim G, Chak G, Lin K, Maeda M, Mosaed S.

Author information: 
(1)aUniversity of California, Gavin Herbert Eye Institute bUniversity of
California, Irvine School of Medicine, Irvine, CA cYasuma Eye Clinic, Aichi,
Japan.

To determine the efficacy and safety of Trabectome surgery on patients with
steroid response, ranging from ocular hypertension refractory to maximal medical 
therapy to the development of steroid-induced glaucoma.A nonrandomized,
nonblinded, retrospective study of 20 subjects with steroid response was
conducted. All 20 eyes underwent Trabectome surgery alone. Nine subjects had
steroid response with unremarkable visual field, 3 had mild steroid-induced
glaucoma, and 8 had advanced steroid-induced glaucoma. Outcome measures included 
intraocular pressure (IOP), number of glaucoma medications, need for secondary
glaucoma surgery, and steroid regimen. Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare
postoperative IOP and number of medications to preoperative IOP and number of
medications. Kaplan-Meier was used for survival analysis, and success was defined
as: IOP reduced by 20% or more on any 2 consecutive visits after 3 months; IOP
≤21 mm Hg on any 2 consecutive visits after 3 months; and no secondary glaucoma
surgery.The average preoperative IOP was 33.8 ± 6.9 mm Hg and average
preoperative glaucoma medication usage was 3.85 ± 0.75 medications. At 12 months,
the IOP was reduced to 15.00 ± 3.46 mm Hg (P = 0.03) and glaucoma medication was 
reduced to 2.3 ± 1.4 (P < 0.01). The survival rate at 12 months was 93%. At 12
months, 10 patients were continued on their preoperative steroid treatments, 5
were on tapered steroid treatments, and 5 had ceased steroid treatments entirely.
One patient required secondary glaucoma surgery (glaucoma drainage device). No
other complications were noted.The Trabectome procedure is safe and highly
effective for steroid-response glaucoma, even in the context of continued steroid
treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005383 
PMID: 27977576  [PubMed - in process]


134. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 13. [Epub ahead of print]

Is Autophagy Dysfunction a Key to Exfoliation Glaucoma?

Wolosin JM(1), Ritch R, Bernstein AM.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Ophthalmology ‡Pharmacology and Systems Therapeutics, Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai †Einhorn Clinical Research Center, New York Eye
and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai, New York, NY.

In this short report we review previous work toward the identification of the
protein and cellular sources of exfoliation glaucoma and described our recent
finding on dysfunction of autophagy in Tenon capsule fibroblasts obtained from
exfoliation syndrome glaucoma patients at the time of surgery and discuss the
potential implications of these findings for understanding the cellular sources
of the disease.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000606 
PMID: 27977481  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


135. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 13. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparing the Performance of Compass Perimetry With Humphrey Field Analyzer in
Eyes With Glaucoma.

Rao HL(1), Raveendran S, James V, Dasari S, Palakurthy M, Reddy HB, Pradhan ZS,
Rao DA, Puttaiah NK, Devi S.

Author information: 
(1)Narayana Nethralaya, Rajajinagar, Bangalore, India.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the reliability indices [fixation losses, false negative
response rates (FN) and false positive response rates] and threshold
sensitivities obtained from glaucoma patients with a Compass perimeter and to
compare the same with the Humphrey field analyzer (HFA).
METHODS: In a cross-sectional study, 97 eyes of 58 subjects (64 glaucoma and 33
glaucoma suspect eyes) underwent visual field examination with Compass and HFA.
Any test with a fixation losses, FN or FP of >20% was considered unreliable.
Reliability indices and threshold sensitivities between the 2 instruments were
compared and the agreement evaluated using Bland and Altman analysis.
RESULTS: In total, 37 tests (38%) with Compass and 17 (18%) with HFA were
unreliable. The number of unreliable tests due to high FN (>20%) was
significantly more (P=0.005) with Compass (n=27) than HFA (n=3). The mean
difference [95% limits of agreement (LoA)] in mean sensitivity between Compass
and HFA in the 51 eyes with reliable Compass and HFA results was -0.7 dB (-5.6,
4.3 dB). The point-wise threshold sensitivities with Compass were lower than that
with HFA in central and temporal but higher in the nasal field. The 95% LoA
ranged from -8 to +5 dB at one of the central points to -20 to +20 dB at one of
the peripheral points.
CONCLUSIONS: The numbers of unreliable tests were higher with Compass compared
with HFA. The LoA between Compass and HFA for point-wise threshold sensitivities 
as well as the global indices were wide, implying that the instruments cannot be 
used interchangeably.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000609 
PMID: 27977480  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


136. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 13. [Epub ahead of print]

Pilot Study of Lamina Cribrosa Intensity Measurements in Glaucoma Using
Swept-Source Optical Coherence Tomography.

Srinivas S(1), Dastiridou A, Durbin MK, Nittala MG, Huang AA, Tan JC, Francis BA,
Sadda SR, Chopra V.

Author information: 
(1)*Doheny Image Reading Center, Doheny Eye Institute ‡Department of
Ophthalmology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles †Carl Zeiss
Meditec Inc., Dublin, CA.

PURPOSE: To compare the lamina cribrosa (LC) intensity in glaucoma-suspect eyes
and eyes with mild to moderate glaucoma using swept-source optical coherence
tomography.
METHODS: Optic disc volume scans were collected using swept-source optical
coherence tomography in 19 clinically defined glaucoma-suspect eyes and 29 eyes
with mild to moderate glaucoma. LC intensity was measured using Image J software,
and the resultant values were normalized using the retinal pigment epithelium and
vitreous signal.
RESULTS: Mean age was 53.7±18.5 years in the glaucoma-suspect eyes and 63.0±16.1 
years in the eyes with mild to moderate glaucoma (P=0.161). Significant
differences in LC intensity were observed between the 2 groups, with median LC
intensity values of 0.96 and 0.86 units in the glaucoma-suspect and the mild to
moderate glaucoma groups, respectively (P<0.001). A weak positive correlation was
found between mean deviation and normalized LC intensity (r=0.344; P=0.018).
CONCLUSIONS: Intensity measurement of the LC is a potential novel parameter which
warrants further study in the setting of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000605 
PMID: 27977479  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


137. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 13. [Epub ahead of print]

Corneal Biomechanical Changes After Trabeculectomy and the Impact on Intraocular 
Pressure Measurement.

Pillunat KR(1), Spoerl E, Terai N, Pillunat LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical Faculty Carl Gustav Carus, University of 
Technology, Dresden, Germany.

PURPOSE: To evaluate corneal biomechanical changes induced by trabeculectomy and 
their impact on intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In total, 35 eyes of 35 consecutive glaucoma patients
undergoing first-time trabeculectomy with mitomycin C were enrolled in this
prospective interventional case series. Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT) IOP,
central corneal thickness, axial length, and Ocular Response Analyzer
measurements [Goldmann-correlated IOP (IOPg), corneal-compensated IOP (IOPcc),
corneal hysteresis (CH), and corneal resistance factor (CRF)] were assessed
before and 6 months after uncomplicated trabeculectomy. Linear mixed models were 
used to compare the parameters before and after surgery.
RESULTS: IOP, central corneal thickness, and axial length showed a strong
correlation with CH and CRF preoperatively and postoperatively. After adjusting
for these influencing factors, CH changed from 7.75±1.46 to 7.62±1.66 mm Hg
(P=0.720) and CRF from 8.67±1.18 to 8.52±1.35 mm Hg (P=0.640) after
trabeculectomy, but these changes were not statistically significant. IOP
decreased statistically significantly with all IOP measurements (P=0.001). IOPcc 
was statistically significantly higher than GAT (4.82±5.24 mm Hg; P=0.001) and
IOPg (2.92±1.74 mm Hg; P=0.001) preoperatively and postoperatively (GAT,
3.29±3.36 mm Hg; P=0.001; IOPg, 3.35±1.81 mm Hg; P=0.001). The difference between
IOPcc and GAT (P=0.5) and IOPcc and IOPg (P=0.06) did not change significantly
before or after trabeculectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite a marked IOP reduction and a possible weakening of the
ocular walls after trabeculectomy, corneal structural tissue properties are not
altered, and therefore, the accuracy of IOP measurements is not changed
postoperatively. It seems likely, however, that Goldmann-correlated IOP
measurements are underestimated in glaucoma patients before and after surgery.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000595 
PMID: 27977478  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


138. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 13. [Epub ahead of print]

Iridocorneal Endothelial Syndrome Presenting With Large Diurnal Intraocular
Pressure Fluctuation.

Mogil RS(1), Lee JM, Tirsi A, Tello C, Park SC.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Manhattan Eye, Ear & Throat Hospital †Department
of Ophthalmology, Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine, Hempstead, NY.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The purpose of the study was to report a case of
iridocorneal endothelial syndrome with an initial presentation of a large diurnal
fluctuation of intraocular pressure (IOP) which peaked early in the morning.
METHODS: A 31-year-old white man had transient blurry vision oculus sinister (OS)
upon awakening in the morning for the past 2 months. The blurry vision improved
within 1 to 2 hours. Clinical examination, diurnal IOP measurements, and specular
microscopy were performed to investigate the cause of his transient blurry
vision.
RESULTS: At 6 AM, IOP OS was 38 mm Hg with corneal edema and visual acuity of
20/30. At 8 AM, IOP OS decreased to 25 mm Hg with clear cornea and visual acuity 
of 20/20. Diurnal IOP measurements revealed a large fluctuation OS (18 mm Hg).
Specular microscopy revealed pleomorphism, polymegathism, light peripheral
borders and light/dark reversal of the corneal endothelium OS. IOP oculus dexter 
remained within normal limits with clear cornea and stable visual acuity
throughout the diurnal measurements.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with consistent daily episodes of transient blurry
vision, clinicians should suspect a large diurnal IOP fluctuation with high peak 
IOP. If symptoms and signs are unilateral, iridocorneal endothelial syndrome
should be included in the differential diagnosis and corneal specular microscopy 
should be obtained.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000607 
PMID: 27977477  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


139. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 13. [Epub ahead of print]

24-Hour Intraocular Pressure Rhythm in Patients With Untreated Primary Open Angle
Glaucoma and Effects of Selective Laser Trabeculoplasty.

Aptel F(1), Musson C, Zhou T, Lesoin A, Chiquet C.

Author information: 
(1)*Université Grenoble Alpes †Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital
of Grenoble ‡INSERM U1042, Lab Hypoxia and Physiopathology, Joseph Fourier
University, Grenoble, France.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The purpose of the study was to evaluate the 24-hour
nyctohemeral rhythm of intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with untreated
primary open angle glaucoma using a contact lens sensor. To evaluate the effect
of selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) on the 24-hour rhythm of IOP.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Prospective study conducted in a chronobiology center.
Fourteen patients with primary open angle glaucoma underwent three 24-hour IOP
measurement sessions after a complete wash-out of the medical treatment: before
SLT and 1 and 6 months after, using the contact lens sensor Triggerfish
(SENSIMED, Lausanne, Switzerland). IOP and the main parameters of nyctohemeral
rhythm (existence of a rhythm, acrophase, bathyphase, midline estimating
statistic of rhythm, amplitude, and range) before SLT were compared with the same
parameters measured 1 and 6 months later.
RESULTS: IOP increased from 16.3±3.7 to 22.1±8.4 mm Hg (5.8 mm Hg; 95% confidence
interval (CI), 2.41-12.71; P=0.009) after the wash-out procedure. After SLT, IOP 
significantly decreased by 3.4 mm Hg (95% CI, 0.09-7.89; P=0.041) (14.9%) at 1
month and 1.9 mm Hg (95% CI 0.10-3.84; P=0.044) (8.1%) at 6 months. After
medication wash-out, 100% of the subjects had a nyctohemeral IOP rhythm with
nocturnal acrophase (01:57±3:32 AM, 01:22±3:01 AM, and 03:17±2:12 AM at
inclusion, 1 and 6 mo, respectively). SLT did not significantly change the
characteristics of the 24-hour IOP pattern, notably the amplitude and the type of
rhythm (persistence of nocturnal acrophase).
CONCLUSIONS: After medical treatment wash-out, patients with open angle glaucoma 
consistently had a significant 24-hour IOP rhythm with nocturnal acrophase. SLT
reduces the absolute IOP value but does not modify the nyctohemeral IOP rhythm.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000604 
PMID: 27977476  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


140. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 13. [Epub ahead of print]

Trabecular Micro-Bypass Stent Use in Necrotizing Scleritis.

Sandhu S(1), Heckler L, Mah D, Dorey MW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.

PURPOSE: In this case report, we describe the successful implantation of multiple
trabecular micro-bypass iStents in a patient with necrotizing scleritis.
DESIGN: The study design is a case report.
PARTICIPANTS: The participant was a patient who underwent multiple micro-bypass
iStent surgery.
METHODS: A 71-year-old man with primary open-angle glaucoma, diagnosed with
necrotizing scleritis and treated with steroids consequently resulting in
significantly elevated intraocular pressure in the right eye.
RESULTS: Following uncomplicated surgery, IOP was reduced from 42 to 12 mm Hg 18 
months after surgery on 2 drops and prednisone 40 mg daily CONCLUSIONS:: iStents 
may be considered as a possible intervention to lower IOP in patients with
necrotizing scleritis in whom traditional glaucoma surgery is challenging or
contraindicated.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000602 
PMID: 27977475  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


141. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec 13. [Epub ahead of print]

Referral to Low Vision Services for Glaucoma Patients: Referral Patterns and
Characteristics of Those Who Refer.

Kaleem MA(1), West SK, Im LT, Swenor BK.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, University of Maryland †Wilmer Eye Institute,
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD.

PURPOSE: To identify characteristics of ophthalmologists and practices who refer 
glaucoma patients to low vision services (LVS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An online survey was distributed to members of the
American Glaucoma Society. The survey queried demographics of responders and
their clinical practices, criteria and barriers to referral to LVS. Survey
responders were categorized as high referrers if they reported referring >5
patients to LVS and low referrers if they referred ≤5. χ and Fischer exact tests 
were used to compare characteristics between high and low referrers. Logistic
regression analyses were used to calculate odds ratios and 95% confidence
intervals and determine factors associated with referrer status.
RESULTS: High referrers to LVS tended to have >10 patients per month who had
already seen a low vision provider (53% vs. 10%, P<0.001), reported following the
American Academy of Ophthalmology's Preferred Practice Pattern (PPP)
recommendations for LVS referrals (38% vs. 18%, P=0.011), and expressed
satisfaction with their current referral practices (86% vs. 70%, P=0.049). In the
fully adjusted model those who followed PPP were 2.5 times more likely to report 
being a high referrer as compared with a low referrer (95% confidence interval,
1.1-5.3). However, only 22% of ophthalmologists reported following these
guidelines in their practice. The number of years in practice, practice location 
or type, volume of patients seen each week, and distance to a low vision clinic
were not associated with referral.
CONCLUSIONS: Familiarity with PPP guidelines may positively influence LVS
referral practices.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000600 
PMID: 27977474  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


142. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 15. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12897. [Epub ahead of print]

Classification of needling for trabeculectomy blebs.

King A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nottingham University Hospital, Nottingham, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12897 
PMID: 27976518  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


143. Urologe A. 2016 Dec 14. [Epub ahead of print]

[Renal decapsulation for the treatment of anuria : A "forgotten" treatment from
the early 20th century].

[Article in German]

Dräger DL(1), Protzel C(2), Hakenberg OW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Universitätsmedizin Rostock,
Ernst-Heydemann-Str. 6, 18057, Rostock, Deutschland.
desiree.draeger@med.uni-rostock.de. (2)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie,
Universitätsmedizin Rostock, Ernst-Heydemann-Str. 6, 18057, Rostock, Deutschland.

In the early 20th century, Harrison first performed renal decapsulation in anuric
children with scarlet fever and observed improvement in renal function
postoperatively. The pathophysiological explanation was seen in intraparenchymal 
renal pressure due to edema which was improved by surgical decapsulation. The
technique of decapsulation was simple excision after incision and blunt
dissection of the renal parenchyma. Renal decapsulation then became a procedure
commonly used for many indications in inflammatory renal conditions; indications 
were renal angioneurosis, hydronephrosis, toxic, bacterial and chronic nephritis,
renal abscess and even eclampsia. With the beginning of the antibiotic era, renal
decapsulation became obsolete and has disappeared from the urological spectrum
completely.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-016-0298-8 
PMID: 27975208  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


144. Br J Ophthalmol. 2017 Jan;101(1):i. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-310008.

Highlights from this issue.

Barton K, Chodosh J, Jonas J.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-310008 
PMID: 27974322  [PubMed - in process]


145. Age Ageing. 2016 Dec 14. [Epub ahead of print]

Common eye diseases in older adults of southern Germany: results from the
KORA-Age study.

Reitmeir P(1), Linkohr B(2), Heier M(2), Molnos S(2,)(3), Strobl R(4,)(5), Schulz
H(6), Breier M(2,)(3), Faus T(7), Küster DM(2), Wulff A(1), Grallert H(2,)(3),
Grill E(4,)(5), Peters A(2), Graw J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Helmholtz Zentrum München, Deutsches Forschungszentrum für Umwelt und
Gesundheit, Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Neuherberg,
Germany. (2)Helmholtz Zentrum München, Deutsches Forschungszentrum für Umwelt und
Gesundheit, Institute of Epidemiology II, Neuherberg, Germany. (3)Helmholtz
Zentrum München, Deutsches Forschungszentrum für Umwelt und Gesundheit, Research 
Unit Molecular Epidemiology, Neuherberg, Germany.
(4)Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Institute for Medical Information Processing, 
Biometry and Epidemiology, Munich, Germany. (5)Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität,
German Center for Vertigo and Balance Disorders, Munich, Germany. (6)Helmholtz
Zentrum München, Deutsches Forschungszentrum für Umwelt und Gesundheit, Institute
of Epidemiology I, Neuherberg, Germany. (7)Helmholtz Zentrum München, Deutsches
Forschungszentrum für Umwelt und Gesundheit, Institute of Developmental Genetics,
Neuherberg, Germany.

PURPOSE: a population-based study in the region of Augsburg (Germany, KORA) was
used to identify the prevalence of eye diseases and their risk factors in a
sample of aged individuals.
METHODS: data originated from the KORA-Age study collected in 2012 and 822
participants (49.6% women, 50.4% men, aged 68-96 years) were asked standardised
questions about eye diseases. Positive answers were validated and specified by
treating ophthalmologists. Additional information came from laboratory data.
Polymorphic markers were tested for candidate genes.
RESULTS: we received validations and specifications for 339 participants. The
most frequent eye diseases were cataracts (299 cases, 36%), dry eyes (120 cases, 
15%), glaucoma (72 cases, 9%) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) (68
cases, 8%). Almost all participants suffering from glaucoma or from AMD also had 
cataracts. Cataract surgery was associated with diabetes (in men; OR = 2.24; 95% 
confidence interval [CI] 1.11-4.53; P = 0.025) and smoking (in women; OR = 6.77; 
CI 1.62-28.35; P = 0.009). In men, treatments in airway diseases was associated
with cataracts (glucocorticoids: OR = 5.29, CI 1.20-23.37; P = 0.028;
sympathomimetics: OR = 4.57, CI 1.39-15.00; P = 0.012). Polymorphisms in two
genes were associated with AMD (ARMS2: OR = 2.28, CI 1.48-3.51; P = 0.005; CFH:
OR = 2.03, CI 1.35-3.06; P = 0.010).
CONCLUSION: combinations of eye diseases were frequent at old age. The importance
of classical risk factors like diabetes, hypertension and airway diseases
decreased either due to a survivor bias leaving healthier survivors in the older 
age group, or due to an increased influence of other up to now unknown risk
factors.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afw234 
PMID: 27974306  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


146. Lancet. 2016 Oct;388 Suppl 1:S52. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31979-1.

Timing and approaches in congenital cataract surgery: a randomised controlled
trial.

Chen W(1), Long E(1), Chen J(1), Liu Z(1), Lin Z(1), Cao Q(1), Wu X(1), Wang
Q(1), Lin D(1), Li X(1), Luo L(1), Qu B(1), Lin H(2), Liu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun
Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510060, China. (2)State Key Laboratory 
of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou,
Guangdong, 510060, China. Electronic address: gddlht@aliyun.com.

BACKGROUND: The optimum timing of surgery and the approach that should be used
during congenital cataract surgery are controversial and present challenges for
paediatric cataract surgeons in China. The aim of this study was to compare
visual prognoses and postoperative adverse effects of paediatric cataract surgery
done at different times and using different surgical approaches.
METHODS: In this prospective, randomised controlled trial, we recruited Chinese
patients aged 3 months or younger who were diagnosed with bilateral diffuse or
total cataracts, but who did not have coexisting ocular, systemic or neurological
diseases. Patients were randomly assigned into two surgical timing groups: a
3-month-old and a 6-month-old. Each eye had one of three randomly assigned
surgical procedures: lens aspiration, lens aspiration with posterior continuous
curvilinear capsulorhexis, and lens aspiration with posterior continuous
curvilinear capsulorhexis and anterior vitrectomy. Long-term visual acuity and
incidence of postoperative secondary glaucoma and severe posterior capsular
opacification were the primary outcomes. χ(2) tests, Fisher's exact tests and
Kruskal-Wallis tests were used to compare the outcomes between groups.
Generalised Estimating Equation with a working covariance matrix of unstructured 
correlations was integrated into the multivariate linear regression to explore
the relationship between long-term visual acuity and the incidence of
complications. The research protocol was approved by the Institutional Review
Board and Ethics Committee of Sun Yat-sen University. Informed written consent
was obtained from at least one family member of each participating patient, and
the study was done according to the Declaration of Helsinki. This trial is
registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02581046.
FINDINGS: We recruited 61 patients (30 girls, 31 boys) to our study. 4 children
were excluded from the final analysis because their parents declined
participation. A total of 57 participants (114 eyes) with a mean follow-up of
48·7 months were included in the final analysis. Long-term visual acuity in
patients who underwent surgery aged 6 months (0·81 [SD 0·28]) was better than
that of patients who had surgery aged 3 months (0·96 [0·30], p=0·02) and
incidence of posterior capsular opacification during the 6 months following
surgery was positively correlated with long-term visual acuity (β=-0·080,
p=0·036). Two (2/95, 2%) eyes with a confirmed diagnosis of secondary glaucoma
were in the 3-month-old group, and additional surgical interventions were done in
these patients to lower the intraocular pressure. For patients who had surgery
aged 6 months, the incidence of severe posterior capsular opacification was
significantly higher in the lens aspiration group than other two groups (lens
aspiration, 8/15 [53%]; lens aspiration with posterior continuous curvilinear
capsulorhexis, 3/21 [14%]; and lens aspiration with posterior continuous
curvilinear capsulorhexis and anterior vitrectomy, 3/16 [19%]; p=0·03).
INTERPRETATION: It was safer and more effective for Chinese bilateral diffuse
congenital cataract patients to have surgery of lens aspiration with posterior
continuous curvilinear capsulorhexis with or without anterior vitrectomy at 6
months of age than at 3 months of age.
FUNDING: National Basic Research Program (973; 2015CB964600); Natural Science
Foundation of Guangzhou (91546101, 81300750); Clinical Research and Translational
Medical Center for Pediatric Cataract in Guangzhou, China.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31979-1 
PMID: 27968868  [PubMed - in process]


147. Lancet. 2016 Oct;388 Suppl 1:S20. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31947-X.

Myopia in China: a population-based cross-sectional, histological, and
experimental study.

Jonas JB(1), Xu L(2), Wei WB(3), Wang YX(2), Jiang WJ(4), Bi HS(4), Panda-Jonas
S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical Faculty Mannheim of the
Ruprecht-Karls-University of Heidelberg, Germany; Beijing Institute of
Ophthalmology, Beijing Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences,
Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University,
Beijing, China. Electronic address: Jost.Jonas@medma.uni-heidelberg.de.
(2)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology
and Visual Sciences, Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing Tongren Hospital,
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. (3)Beijing Tongren Eye Center,
Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. (4)Eye
Institute of Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan,
Shandong, China. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Medical Faculty Mannheim of the 
Ruprecht-Karls-University of Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of myopia has markedly increased within the past three
decades, in particular in China. Because of myopic retinopathy and
myopia-associated glaucoma, myopia has become one of the leading blinding
disorders.
METHODS: Conducting population-based studies and school-based investigations, we 
assessed prevalence and incidence of myopia and associated factors in children,
university students, and adults in urban and rural regions of different Chinese
provinces. We performed histomorphometric studies on human eyes, and examined
whether the intraocular application of an antibody to amphiregulin was associated
with a reduction of experimentally induced myopic axial elongation of eyes in
guinea pigs. This study was approved by the ethics committee of the Shandong
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine.
FINDINGS: In nine population-based studies with up to 560 000 child and adult
participants, the prevalence of myopia was about 80% in 18-year-old school
children and 17% in adults aged 40 years and older. These figures were
significantly higher in urban regions than in rural regions (OR 1·63, 95% CI
1·51-1·75, p<0·0001). Myopic retinopathy and myopia-associated glaucoma were the 
most common causes for irreversible visual loss in adults. In children, the most 
common myopia-associated modifiable factor was less time spent outdoors/more time
spent indoors with studying. Histological studies revealed that the density of
retinal pigment epithelium cells and retinal thickness decreased with longer
axial length in the retinal midperiphery, while retinal cell density and
thickness in the macula were statistically independent (p>0·40) of axial length, 
as was Bruch's membrane thickness. Intraocular application of amphiregulin
antibody reduced axial elongation in guinea pigs in a dosage-dependent manner
(p=0·002; regression coefficient -0·58, 95% CI of difference 0·20 to 0·63).
INTERPRETATION: These findings suggest that the increase in prevalence of myopia 
in the young Chinese generation is associated with lifestyle factors. The
histological findings indicated that myopic axial elongation was associated with 
formation of Bruch's membrane in the midperiphery. Since the retinal pigment
epithelium has receptors for amphiregulin, a member of the epithelial growth
factor family, this hypothesis fits with the finding that amphiregulin antibody
was associated with a dosage-dependent reduction in axial elongation. Further
studies are warranted on the medical reduction of axial myopisation by
amphiregulin antibody.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31947-X 
PMID: 27968833  [PubMed - in process]


148. Expert Opin Ther Pat. 2016 Dec 14. doi: 10.1080/13543776.2017.1272571. [Epub
ahead of print]

Recent advances in acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors and Reactivators: an update on
the patent literature (2012-2015).

McHardy SF(1), Wang HL(1), McCowen SV(1), Valdez MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Center for Innovative Drug Discovery, Department of Chemistry , University
of Texas San Antonio, One UTSA Circle , San Antonio , Texas 78249.

INTRODUCTION: Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is the major enzyme that hydrolyzes
acetylcholine, a key neurotransmitter for synaptic transmission, into acetic acid
and choline. Mild inhibition of AChE has been shown to have therapeutic relevance
in Alzheimer's disease (AD), myasthenia gravis, and glaucoma among others. In
contrast, strong inhibition of AChE can lead to cholinergic poisoning. To combat 
this, AChE reactivators have to be developed to remove the offending AChE
inhibitor, restoring acetylcholine levels to normal. Areas covered: This article 
covers recent advances in the development of acetylcholinesterase modulators,
including both inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase for the efforts in development 
of new chemical entities for treatment of AD, as well as re-activators for
resurrection of organophosphate bound acetylcholinesterase. Expert opinion: Over 
the past three years, research efforts have continued to identify novel small
molecules as AChE inhibitors for both CNS and peripheral diseases. The more
recent patent activity has focused on three AChE ligand design areas: derivatives
of known AChE ligands, natural product based scaffolds and multifunctional
ligands, all of which have produced some unique chemical matter with AChE
inhibition activities in the mid picomolar to low micromolar ranges. New AChE
inhibitors with polypharmacology or dual inhibitory activity have also emerged as
highlighted by new AChE inhibitors with dual activity at L-type calcium channels,
GSK-3, BACE1 and H3, although most only show low micromolar activity, thus
further research is warranted. New small molecule reactivators of
organophosphate-inhibited AChE have also been disclosed, which focused on the
design of neutral ligands with improved pharmaceutical properties and blood-brain
barrier (BBB) penetration. Gratifyingly, some research in this area is moving
away from the traditional quaternary pyridinium oximes AChE reactivators, while
still employing the necessary reactivation group (oximes). However, selectivity
over inhibition of native AChE enzyme, effectiveness of reactivation,
broad-spectrum reactivation against multiple organophosphates and reactivation of
aged-enzyme continue to be hurdles for this area of research.

DOI: 10.1080/13543776.2017.1272571 
PMID: 27967267  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


149. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 14. doi: 10.1111/aos.13302. [Epub ahead of print]

Translaminar pressure in Caucasian normal tension glaucoma patients.

Pircher A(1), Remonda L(2), Weinreb RN(3), Killer HE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Cantonal Hospital Aarau, Aarau, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Neuro-radiology, Cantonal Hospital Aarau, Aarau, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Shiley Eye Institute and Hamilton Glaucoma
Center, University of California, San Diego, California, USA.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to examine the translaminar pressure
difference (TLP) in Caucasian patients with normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and its
possible impact onto the pathogenesis of NTG.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of medical records of patients with open-angle
glaucoma (OAG) in the period from 2005 to 2015 from the Ophthalmology Department,
Cantonal Hospital Aarau, Switzerland. A total of 67 eyes of 38 patients (mean age
68.6 ± 11.3 years, 21 women and 17 men) fulfilled the diagnostic criteria of
progressive NTG and underwent lumbar puncture (LP) during computer-assisted
cisternography (CT - cisternography). The intraocular pressure (IOP) and lumbar
cerebrospinal fluid pressure (CSF-p) were analysed and the TLP calculated. The
TLP was compared with the mean defect (MD) of visual fields. Statistical analysis
was performed with the one and two-tailed paired and unpaired t-test and the
non-parametric Spearman correlation test.
RESULTS: The mean lumbar opening CSF-p measured 11.6 ± 3.7 mmHg. The mean IOP in 
the right eye measured 14.7 ± 2.4 mmHg, in the left eye 14.7 ± 2.5 mmHg. The
calculated mean TLP was 3.0 ± 4.2 mmHg in the right and 3.3 ± 4.3 mmHg in the
left eye. There was no significant correlation between TLP and the MD of visual
fields in both eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: This study did not confirm either a lower lumbar CSF-p or increased 
TLP compared to previous retrospective and prospective studies. As cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) flow is not homogenous throughout all CSF spaces and CSF-p and IOP
fluctuate, the current view on TLP needs modifications to improve its validity.

© 2016 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13302 
PMID: 27966838  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


150. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 14. doi: 10.1111/aos.13339. [Epub ahead of print]

Prevalence of posterior vitreous detachment in glaucoma patients and controls.

Schwab C(1), Glatz W(1), Schmidt B(1), Lindner E(1), Oettl K(2), Riedl R(3),
Wedrich A(1), Ivastinovic D(1), Velikay-Parel M(1), Mossboeck G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departement of Ophthalmology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(2)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Medical University of Graz, Graz,
Austria. (3)Institute for Medical Informatics, Statistics and Documentation,
Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the impact of oxidative stress - present in glaucoma - on
the vitreous. We therefore compare the presence of early and late stages of
posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) between patients with glaucoma and controls.
METHODS: The vitreous state was evaluated by the combination of optical coherence
tomography and ultrasound. The main outcome was the vitreous state classified
into 'no PVD', 'initial PVD' and 'advanced PVD'.
RESULTS: We evaluated the vitreous state in 48 patients with glaucoma (age: mean 
66.5 ± 11.9 years; visual field deviation: mean 10.4 ± 6.8 dB) and compared the
results with 101 previously investigated controls (age: mean 73.6 ± 9.3 years).
After one-to-one matching on age and sex, ordinal logistic regression revealed
that patients with glaucoma were significantly more likely to exhibit advanced
PVD stages compared to non-glaucoma patients (OR 2.60, 95% confidence interval:
1.06-6.36, p = 0.037).
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that the presence or absence of PVD might be a
valuable hint for diagnosing glaucoma - however, further research is needed to
determine whether PVD can be used to supplement current glaucoma screening
guidelines.

© 2016 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13339 
PMID: 27966831  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


151. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 14. doi: 10.1111/aos.13327. [Epub ahead of print]

Paediatric eye injuries in Finland - Helsinki eye trauma study.

Haavisto AK(1), Sahraravand A(1), Holopainen JM(1), Leivo T(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Eye Hospital, Helsinki,
Finland.

PURPOSE: To determine the current population-based epidemiology, treatment, use
of resources and outcomes of children's eye injuries in Finland.
METHODS: The study included all new patients, 16 years of age or under, with
ocular or orbital traumas taken into care to the Helsinki University Eye Hospital
(population base 1.5 million people) in 1 year. The follow-up period was
3 months.
RESULTS: Two hundred and two children's eye injuries were treated. The eye injury
incidence was 5.2-8.3 per 10 000 per year, including all minor and major eye
traumas. Eye injury most likely occurred at the junior high school age
(13-16 years). Thirty-three percentage of accidents took place at home and 24% at
school or in day care. The most common causes were sports equipment (15%),
contact with human body (12%) and superficial foreign bodies (11%). Excluding
minor injuries, contusion was the most common diagnosis (n = 60, 30%).
Eighty-seven percentage of contusion patients were estimated to need lifelong
follow-up due to elevated glaucoma risk. Nine percentage of all patients had a
permanent disability. Guns, fireworks, tools and pellet guns were relatively the 
most dangerous objects. Pellet guns caused 6% of eye injuries, 36% of them
causing permanent impairment. The number of outpatient visits was altogether 443,
inpatient days were 49, and 60 children had major surgeries.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of protective eyewear would have prevented or diminished eye
traumas caused by pellet gun, floorball, most of the firework and in many
superficial foreign body. The use of pellet guns and protective eyewear should be
more supervised. Fireworks and tools are not suitable toys for children.

© 2016 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13327 
PMID: 27966829  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


152. Ophthalmologe. 2016 Dec 13. [Epub ahead of print]

[Transcorneal electrical stimulation in primary open angle glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Röck T(1), Naycheva L(2), Willmann G(1,)(3), Wilhelm B(4), Peters T(4), Zrenner
E(1), Bartz-Schmidt KU(1), Gekeler F(1,)(3), Schatz A(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department für Augenheilkunde, Eberhard Karls Universität Tübingen, Tübingen, 
Deutschland. (2)Klinik für Augenheilkunde, Universitätsklinikum Frankfurt,
Frankfurt am Main, Deutschland. (3)Augenklinik am Katharinenhospital, Klinikum
Stuttgart, Kriegsbergstr. 60, 70329, Stuttgart, Deutschland. (4)STZ eyetrial am
Department für Augenheilkunde, Eberhard Karls Universität Tübingen, Tübingen,
Deutschland. (5)Department für Augenheilkunde, Eberhard Karls Universität
Tübingen, Tübingen, Deutschland. an.schatz@klinikum-stuttgart.de. (6)Augenklinik 
am Katharinenhospital, Klinikum Stuttgart, Kriegsbergstr. 60, 70329, Stuttgart,
Deutschland. an.schatz@klinikum-stuttgart.de.

Recently, reports have been published on the effectiveness of electrical
stimulation in patients and experimental animal models with neurodegenerative
ocular diseases. Our study included 14 patients with primary open angle glaucoma 
(POAG), who were randomized into one of three groups with 0% (sham, n = 5), 66%
(n = 5) or 150% (n = 4) of their individual electrical phosphene thresholds.
Patients were treated with transcorneal electrical stimulation (TES) for 30 min
once a week for 6 consecutive weeks. Outcome measures of our study were the
detection of possible adverse events and efficacy of TES using DTL electrodes in 
subjective and objective parameters of visual function under treatment. TES was
tolerated well and no serious adverse events were registered relating to the
treatment. One single adverse event was registered as appearance of an optic disc
hemorrhage of a sham-stimulated eye. In summary, one significant increase of
intra-ocular pressure in the 66% group was observed in comparison to the sham
group (p = 0.04), without significant differences compared to the 150% group
(both sham vs. 150% group and 66% vs. 150% group). This difference (mean
difference compared to baseline of -2.33 mm Hg for the sham group and +0.97 mm Hg
for the 66% group; REML) was not clinical meaningful. All other findings,
including results of the visual field, were not statistically significant
different between groups. It was shown that TES using DTL electrodes did not
trigger adverse or serious adverse events in the stimulated groups in patients
with POAG. Patients with POAG should currently receive TES only under study
conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-016-0415-5 
PMID: 27966032  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


153. J Ophthalmol. 2016;2016:2678017. Epub 2016 Nov 14.

Elevated Plasma Endothelin-1 Levels in Normal Tension Glaucoma and Primary
Open-Angle Glaucoma: A Meta-Analysis.

Li S(1), Zhang A(1), Cao W(2), Sun X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. (2)Department of Clinical Laboratory,
Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; 
Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai
Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology & Visual Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China; State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, 
Institutes of Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; Key Laboratory of
Myopia, Ministry of Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Visual Impairment and Restoration, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China.

Purpose. The aim of this meta-analysis was to clarify the association between the
plasma endothelin-1 level and the risks of normal tension glaucoma (NTG) and
primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Methods. Relevant publications were collected
from three databases including PubMed, EMBASE, and the Web of Science through
December 31, 2015. In this study, the terms "(endothelin OR ET) AND glaucoma"
were searched. Review Manager 5.2 was used to process the data. Results. Seven
studies (212 cases, 164 controls) were included for the NTG analysis. The mean
plasma endothelin-1 level in the NTG subjects was 0.60 pg/mL (p = 0.02, 95% CI:
0.17-1.04) higher than that of the healthy controls. Six studies (160 cases, 174 
controls) were included for the POAG analysis, and the endothelin-1 level was
0.63 pg/mL (p = 0.007, 95% CI: 0.12-1.15) higher in the POAG subjects than in the
healthy controls. Additionally, two studies influenced the meta-analysis results 
regarding the association of plasma endothelin-1 with POAG by sensitivity
analysis, and the probability of publication bias was low. Conclusions. The
observation that NTG and POAG subjects showed significantly elevated endothelin-1
plasma concentrations suggests that a higher plasma level of endothelin-1 might
increase the risk of NTG and POAG development.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/2678017 
PMCID: PMC5124679
PMID: 27965889  [PubMed - in process]


154. Cytokine Growth Factor Rev. 2016 Dec 2. pii: S1359-6101(16)30150-2. doi:
10.1016/j.cytogfr.2016.11.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Expression and signaling of NGF in the healthy and injured retina.

Garcia TB(1), Hollborn M(2), Bringmann A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Eye Hospital, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, 
Germany. Electronic address: BarataGarcia.Tarcyane@medizin.uni-leipzig.de.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Eye Hospital, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, 
Germany.

This review summarizes the present knowledge concerning the retinal localization 
of the nerve growth factor (NGF), its precursor proNGF, and the receptors TrkA
and p75(NTR) in the developing and mature rodent retina. We further discuss the
changes in the expression of NGF and the receptors in experimental models of
retinal disorders and diseases like inherited retinitis pigmentosa, retinal
detachment, glaucoma, and diabetic retinopathy. Since proNGF is now recognized as
a bioactive signaling molecule which induces cell death through p75(NTR)
activation, the role of proNGF in the induction of retinal cell loss under
neurodegenerative conditions is also highlighted. In addition, we present the
evidences for a potential therapeutic intervention with NGF for the treatment of 
retinal neurodegenerative diseases. Different strategies have been developed and 
experimentally tested in mice and rats in order to reduce cell loss and Müller
cell gliosis, e.g., increasing the availability of endogenous NGF, administration
of exogenous NGF, activation of TrkA, and inhibition of p75(NTR). Here, we
discuss the several lines of evidence supporting a protective effect of NGF on
retinal cell loss, with specific emphasis on photoreceptor and retinal ganglion
cell degeneration. A better understanding of the mechanisms underlying the
effects of NGF and proNGF in the modulation of neurodegeneration and gliosis in
the retina will help to develop efficient therapeutic strategies for various
retinal diseases.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cytogfr.2016.11.005 
PMID: 27964967  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


155. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2016 Dec 14:1-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Agreement in Measurement of Optic Cup-to-Disc Ratio with Stereo Biomicroscope
Funduscopy and Digital Image Analysis: Results from the Nigeria National
Blindness and Visual Impairment Survey.

Kyari F(1,)(2), Gilbert C(1).

Author information: 
(1)a International Centre for Eye Health (ICEH) , London School of Hygiene &
Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) , London , UK. (2)b Department of Ophthalmology ,
College of Health Sciences, University of Abuja , Nigeria.

PURPOSE: To determine agreement in estimations of vertical cup-to-disc ratio
(VCDR) between clinical stereo-biomicroscopic funduscopy and digital fundus image
analysis.
METHODS: Systematic sampling of 1-in-7 from a sample of 13,591 participants aged 
≥40 years gave a subsample who were examined in detail. VCDR was estimated
clinically by 60 diopter aspheric lens biomicroscopic funduscopy (c-VCDR) and by 
digital fundus images (i-VCDR) graded at the Moorfields Eye Hospital Reading
Centre. Spearman's correlation coefficient, paired t-test and the Bland-Altman
method to assess limits of agreement (LOA) between the two methods were applied.
RESULTS: Of 1759 participants in the subsample, 848 participants (48%) with
normal frequency doubling technology (FDT) visual fields and data for i-VCDR and 
c-VCDR in both eyes (n = 1696 eyes) were included in the analysis. By absolute
difference of VCDR values for each eye between the two methods, 1585 eyes (94%)
differed by ≤0.2. Mean i-VCDR was 0.381 (standard deviation, SD 0.156), and mean 
c-VCDR 0.321 (SD 0.145). i-VCDRs were significantly larger by a mean difference
of 0.061 (SD 0.121; 95% confidence interval, CI, 0.055-0.066; p < 0.001). The 95%
LOA assessed by the Bland-Altman method were lower limit -0.182 (95% CI -0.192 to
-0.172) and upper limit 0.303 (95% CI 0.293-0.313). The 95% LOA intervals
narrowed with higher VCDR.
CONCLUSION: Digital image analysis and clinical assessment are two distinct
methods to measure VCDR; with larger i-VCDRs in this survey. Applying i-VCDR
cut-off values to c-VCDR measurements in the Nigeria Blindness Survey might have 
underestimated glaucoma prevalence. It is recommended that all participants in
glaucoma surveys have VCDR by digital image measurement.

DOI: 10.1080/09286586.2016.1254806 
PMID: 27960638  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


156. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 14:1-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Investigation of Association between Autophagy-Related Gene Polymorphisms and
Pseudoexfoliation Syndrome and Pseudoexfoliation Glaucoma in a Spanish
Population.

de Juan-Marcos L(1,)(2), Escudero-Domínguez FA(1), Hernández-Galilea E(1,)(2),
Cruz-González F(1,)(2), Follana-Neira I(1), González-Sarmiento R(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , University Hospital of Salamanca , Salamanca ,
Spain. (2)b Institute for Biomedical Research of Salamanca (IBSAL) , Salamanca , 
Spain. (3)c Molecular Medicine Unit, Department of Medicine , University of
Salamanca , Salamanca , Spain. (4)d Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology
of Cancer (BMCC) , University of Salamanca-CSIC , Salamanca , Spain.

PURPOSE: Cellular stress conditions are important mechanisms implicated in the
pathogenesis of pseudoexfoliation syndrome. One of the potential cellular
responses to these stress conditions is induction of autophagy. The purpose of
this study was to evaluate whether genetic variants in three critical genes of
autophagy (ATG16L, ATG2B, ATG5) may be involved in the development of
pseudoexfoliation syndrome (XFS) and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (XFG) in a
Spanish population.
METHODS: 108 patients (64 XFS, 44XFG) and 118 healthy controls were evaluated.
The analysis of genetic polymorphisms was performed by standard TaqMan allelic
discrimination technique.
RESULTS: No significant differences in either genotype distributions or allelic
frequencies of the tested polymorphisms were found between patients with XFS/XFG 
and control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that these three genes that are critical
components of the autophagy pathway (ATG16L, ATG2B, ATG5) are not significant
risk factors among Spanish patients with either XFS or XFG.

DOI: 10.1080/08820538.2016.1247177 
PMID: 27960588  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


157. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2016 Dec 14:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of Aging on Retinal Nerve Fiber Layer Thickness in Normal Asian Indian
Eyes: A Longitudinal Study.

Mansoori T(1), Balakrishna N(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Glaucoma , Anand Eye Institute , Hyderabad , India. (2)b
Department of Biostatistics , National Institute of Nutrition , Hyderabad ,
India.

PURPOSE: To determine longitudinal retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness
measurement change with aging, after a period of 3 years using spectral optical
coherence tomography/scanning laser ophthalmoscope (OCT/SLO).
METHODS: A total of 50 eyes of 25 normal subjects underwent RNFL thickness
measurement in 2008 and again in 2011 by a single operator, using spectral
OCT/SLO. Measurements were compared at baseline and at follow-up. Linear mixed
model analysis was used to measure the effect of age on RNFL thickness
measurements over the 3 years.
RESULTS: Mean RNFL thickness was 107.92 ± 11.1 µm in 2008 and 106.56 ± 10.8 µm in
2011. For every year increase in age, mean RNFL thickness showed a statistically 
significant decrease by -0.54 µm (95% confidence interval, -0.76 to -0.31; p <
0.0001). There was a statistically significant loss of peripapillary RNFL
thickness in most RNFL regions, except for the temporal quadrant (p = 0.37) and
corresponding 7, 8, 9, and 10 o'clock hour sectors (p = 0.72, 0.75, 0.17, 0.14,
respectively).
CONCLUSION: RNFL thickness as measured by spectral OCT/SLO decreased
significantly with advancing age over a period of 3 years, and was not uniform
across the four quadrants. This age-related variation should be taken into
account in RNFL thickness measurements when evaluating patients for diagnosis and
follow-up of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1080/09286586.2016.1255762 
PMID: 27960583  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


158. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 14:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Ultrasound Biomicroscopy in Pseudophakic Patients with Unexplained Recurrent
Hyphema or Vitreous Hemorrhage.

Alniemi ST(1), Amin SR(1), Sculley L(1), Bakri SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Mayo Clinic Department of Ophthalmology , Rochester , MN , USA.

PURPOSE: To describe IOL haptic with iris or ciliary body touch on ultrasound
biomicroscopy (UBM) in pseudophakic patients with unexplained recurrent hyphema
or vitreous hemorrhage.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of 10 patients who presented with unexplained
recurrent hyphema and or vitreous hemorrhage.
RESULTS: There were eight posterior chamber intraocular lenses (PCIOL) and two
sulcus lenses. Four cases had a history of glaucoma; two cases which had a
history of trabeculectomy were found to have some bridging vessels along the
sclerostomy requiring argon laser gonioplasty. No preceding trauma or retinal
pathology was found. UBM revealed haptic-ciliary body or haptic-iris touch in
cases with a PCIOL and haptic-iris touch in both sulcus lens cases. One case with
a PCIOL did not reveal any haptic-iris or ciliary body touch and instead
displacement of the optic temporally, though haptics remained intracapsular.
CONCLUSIONS: UBM is a useful tool to evaluate haptic position in pseudophakic
patients with unexplained recurrent hyphema and/or vitreous hemorrhage. This is
the largest existing series of patients with this clinical entity reported from a
single institution.

DOI: 10.1080/08820538.2016.1228984 
PMID: 27960582  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


159. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 14:1-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Sutureless Scleral Tunnel Trabeculectomy: Evaluation of Feasibility and
Effectiveness versus Conventional Trabeculectomy for Management of Primary Open
Angle Glaucoma.

Khairy HA(1), Elsawy MF(1), Said-Ahmed K(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Menoufia University Hospitals , Menoufia , Egypt.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the intraocular pressure-lowering effect of sutureless
scleral tunnel trabeculectomy with Mitomycin-C (MMC) compared to the standard
trabeculectomy with MMC in patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: This was a masked, randomized, controlled comparison trial involving 34 
eyes of 34 patients with bilateral POAG. Patients were randomized to receive
sutureless sclera flap trabeculectomy with MMC or conventional trabeculectomy
with MMC. The main outcome for comparison was the IOP-lowering effect of both
procedures. Complete surgical success was considered if the patient's IOP was <22
mmHg and the IOP were lowered by more than 20% with the use of maximum two
anti-glaucoma medications.
RESULTS: All surgeries passed uneventfully without intraoperative complications
and all patients showed significantly (p<0.05) lower IOP on the first
postoperative day compared to their respective preoperative IOP with
non-significant (p>0.05) difference between both study groups. All patients,
irrespective of operative procedure, maintained significantly (p<0.05) lower IOP 
compared to their respective preoperative IOP until the end of 12 months'
follow-up. There were no recorded serious postoperative complications in either
groups, like wound leaks or endophthalmitis.
CONCLUSION: Sutureless scleral tunnel trabeculectomy exhibits potential as an
alternative to conventional trabeculectomy surgery. Over 12 months of follow-up, 
sutureless sclera flap trabeculectomy was safe and effective with an IOP-lowering
effect comparable to that achieved with the conventional technique, but with
increased rate of postoperative transient hypotony.

DOI: 10.1080/08820538.2016.1242633 
PMID: 27960578  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


160. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 14:1-12. [Epub ahead of print]

Systematic Review of Knowledge Assessments for Glaucoma Patients.

Peralta E(1), Muir KW(1), Rosdahl JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Duke University , Durham , NC , USA.

Glaucoma is a chronic eye disease affecting millions of people worldwide; it is
frequently treated with daily eyedrop medications when patients are asymptomatic.
Patient education is an essential feature for adherence to treatments. Developing
useful patient education interventions is predicated on understanding what
glaucoma patients know about their disease and identifying gaps in their
knowledge. Thirteen studies that have measured and described glaucoma patient
knowledge using questionnaires were identified from the literature, including
cross-sectional studies of disease knowledge and studies evaluating the efficacy 
of an educational intervention, both randomized controlled and observational. All
studies found significant knowledge gaps in glaucoma patients. Both the
controlled studies and the observational studies supported the efficacy of
various educational interventions for improving glaucoma knowledge.

DOI: 10.1080/08820538.2016.1247180 
PMID: 27960573  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


161. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 13;11(12):e0168030. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168030.
eCollection 2016.

Circadian Patterns of Intraocular Pressure Fluctuation among Normal-Tension
Glaucoma Optic Disc Phenotypes.

Moon Y(1), Kwon J(1), Jeong DW(1), Lee JY(1), Lee JR(1), Han S(2), Kook MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ulsan, College of Medicine, Asan
Medical Center, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Applied Statistics, Gachon
University, Seongnam-Si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the 24-h habitual-position intraocular pressure (IOP) 
patterns of optic disc phenotypes (ODPs) in untreated normal-tension glaucoma
(NTG) and the relationships between nocturnal IOP elevation and various clinical 
factors.
DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional, observational study.
METHODS: Eighty-two NTG patients with focal ischemic (FI) ODP and 82 age- and
disease severity-matched NTG patients with myopic glaucomatous (MG) ODP were
recruited prospectively over 3 years. The IOP was recorded 11 times over a
24-hour (h) period by a single ophthalmologist using a hand-held tonometer
(TonoPen®XL). A cosinor model was used to describe the 24-h IOP rhythm.
Associations between nocturnal IOP elevation and both ocular and demographic
variables were evaluated using the generalized estimating equation (GEE).
RESULTS: Mean habitual-position IOP was significantly higher during nighttime
than daytime in the FI group (16.44 vs. 14.23 mmHg, P < 0.001), but not in the MG
group (15.91 vs. 15.70 mmHg, P = 0.82). The FI group also exhibited a
significantly higher peak IOP during sleeping hours (P = 0.01) and lower trough
IOP during the 24-h period than the MG group (P < 0.01). The MG group showed a
significantly higher peak IOP during waking hours than the FI group (P < 0.01).
Therefore, 24-h IOP fluctuation range was significantly higher in the FI group
than the MG group (P = 0.013). In the FI group, peak habitual-position IOP and
the highest frequency of IOP peaks occurred during sleeping hours (12 AM-6 AM).
By contrast, IOP peaks in the MG group occurred during morning hours (8 AM-12
PM). The FI group showed an overall nocturnal acrophase in habitual-position IOP,
with 45 patients (54.9%) having a nocturnal acrophase; 10 (12.2%), a diurnal
acrophase; and 27 (32.9%), no evident acrophase. By contrast, the MG group showed
no evident peak in habitual-position IOP, with 9 patients (10.9%) having a
nocturnal acrophase; 43 (52.4%), a diurnal acrophase; and 30 (36.6%), no evident 
acrophase. In multivariate modeling using the GEE, ODP (P < 0.001) and spherical 
equivalent (SE, P = 0.001) were independently associated with nocturnal IOP
elevation.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on 24-h habitual-position IOP data, FI is associated with
significant nocturnal IOP elevation, while no such nocturnal IOP elevation is
observed in MG ODP. In untreated NTG, there are also significant differences in
the 24-h IOP pattern between FI and MG ODPs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168030 
PMCID: PMC5154535
PMID: 27959943  [PubMed - in process]


162. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov;64(11):861-863. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.195620.

Decompression retinopathy after intravitreal bevacizumab and anterior chamber
paracentesis in a patient with neovascular glaucoma.

Kim ES(1), Yu SY(1), Han SB(2), Kim M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kyung Hee University Hospital, School of
Medicine, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
School of Medicine, Kangwon National University, Chuncheon, Korea.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.195620 
PMID: 27958217  [PubMed - in process]


163. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov;64(11):840-842. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.195600.

Fluorescein angiography of subretinal neovascular membrane in parafoveal
telangiectasia type II demonstrating retino-retinal, retino-subretinal
anastomosis.

Megur B(1), Megur D(2), Reddy S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Retina and Uvea, Megur Eye Care Centre, Bidar, Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Cataract and Glaucoma, Megur Eye Care Centre, Bidar, Karnataka, 
India. (3)Department of Retina, Megur Eye Care Centre, Bidar, Karnataka, India.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.195600 
PMID: 27958208  [PubMed - in process]


164. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov;64(11):822-828. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.195596.

Revision of trabeculectomy filtering blebs with mitomycin C: Long term results.

Tulidowicz-Bielak M(1), Kosior-Jarecka E(1), Żarnowski T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Microsurgery of Glaucoma, Medical University of
Lublin, Lublin, Poland.

AIM: The aim of the study is to assess the outcomes of transconjunctival
mitomycin C (MMC)-augmented revision in eyes with failed trabeculectomy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a retrospective, noncomparative case series. One
hundred and twenty-one eyes of 113 consecutive glaucoma patients with previously 
failed trabeculectomy who underwent transconjunctival revision with at least 12
months of follow-up were initially included in the study. The success was
determined on the basis of intraocular pressure (IOP) alone. The main outcome
measures were IOP, best-corrected distance visual acuity, complications, bleb
appearance, lens status, visual field progression, and time between primary
trabeculectomy and MMC revision. The main purpose of the study was to determine
the efficacy of a single MMC-augmented needle revision.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up was 2.3 years. Twelve months after revision, IOP had
declined from 26.1 ± 8.4 mmHg to 14.1 ± 4.8 mmHg (P < 0.05) and remained 16.0 ±
5.6 mmHg at 24 months, 15.7 ± 5.8 mmHg at 48 months, and 15.2 ± 4.0 mmHg at 60
months. Complete success was achieved in 53% of cases, 84% achieved qualified
success, and 16% were classified as failures 12 months after revision. Early
complications developed in 45 of the initial 121 eyes (37.2%).
CONCLUSIONS: Transconjunctival MMC-augmented revision appears to be a safe and
useful tool in reducing IOP and re-establishing filtration after trabeculectomy
failure. This simple procedure has a high rate of success and helps avoid other
surgical interventions which are more destructive for the conjunctiva.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.195596 
PMID: 27958205  [PubMed - in process]


165. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov;64(11):818-821. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.195594.

Results and safety profile of trainee cataract surgeons in a community setting in
East Africa.

Mavrakanas N(1), Dhalla KA(2), Jecha J(2), Kapesa I(2), Odouard C(3), Murdoch
I(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Glaucoma Service, Moorfields Eye Hospital,
London, UK. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Comprehensive Community Based
Rehabilitation in Tanzania Disability Hospital, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Sydney Hospital and Sydney Eye Hospital, Sydney, 
Australia. (4)Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, London, UK.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the results and safety profile of assistant medical officer 
ophthalmologists (AMO-O) performing cataract surgery in the last stage of their
surgical training, before their appointment to local communities.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the records of patients who underwent
cataract surgery by AMO-Os at Dar es Salaam, Comprehensive Community Based
Rehabilitation for Tanzania Disability Hospital between September 2008 and June
2011. Surgical options were either extracapsular cataract extraction (ECCE) or
manual small incision cataract surgery (MSICS), both with polymethylmethacrylate 
intraocular lens implantation.
RESULTS: Four hundred and fourteen patients were included in the study. Two
hundred and twenty-five (54%) underwent ECCE and 189 had MSICS. Mean logarithm of
the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) uncorrected visual acuity (UCVA)
improved from 2.4 ± 0.6 preoperatively to 1.3 ± 0.8 1 week postoperatively
(t-test, P < 0.001) and to 1.1 ± 0.7 3 months postoperatively (t-test, P <
0.001). Mean logMAR best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was 0.7 ± 0.5 1 week
postoperatively and 0.6 ± 0.5 3 months postoperatively. There was no significant 
difference in mean logMAR UCVA (P = 0.7) and BCVA (P = 0.7) postoperatively
between ECCE and MSICS. 89.5% achieved BCVA better than 6/60 and 57.3% better
than 6/18 with a follow-up of 3 months. Posterior capsule rupture and/or vitreous
loss occurred in 34/414 patients (8.2%) and was more frequent (P = 0.047) in
patients undergoing ECCE (10.2%) compared with MSICS (5.3%).
CONCLUSION: AMO-O cataract surgeons at the end of their training offer
significant improvement in the visual acuity of their patients. Continuous
monitoring of outcomes will guide further improvements in surgical skills and
minimize complications.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.195594 
PMID: 27958204  [PubMed - in process]


166. Case Rep Ophthalmol Med. 2016;2016:7260603. Epub 2016 Nov 13.

Bimatoprost Induced Serous Macular Detachment after Cataract Surgery.

Parchand S(1), Kaliaperumal S(1), Deb AK(1), Babu KR(1), Srinivasan R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical
Education and Research (JIPMER), Pondicherry 605006, India.

We report a case of bimatoprost induced serous macular detachment and choroidal
folds following uneventful cataract surgery. A 66-year-old male using topical
bimatoprost in both eyes for open angle glaucoma underwent uneventful cataract
surgery in the right eye. Postoperatively, he was restarted on topical
bimatoprost and antibiotic-steroids combination drops. One week after surgery, he
presented with conjunctival hyperemia, serous macular detachment, and choroidal
folds at the posterior pole. Fundus fluorescein angiography showed perifoveal
leaks in early stage with pooling of dye in late stage. Discontinuation of
bimatoprost led to resolution of serous detachment and choroidal folds within 3
weeks with significant improvement in visual acuity. Occurrence of serous macular
detachment and choroidal folds in this case could be probably related to the
proinflammatory property of bimatoprost. Hence, it should be used with caution in
the immediate postoperative period after cataract surgery.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/7260603 
PMCID: PMC5124471
PMID: 27957367  [PubMed]


167. Case Rep Ophthalmol Med. 2016;2016:5253029. Epub 2016 Nov 10.

Severe Corticosteroid-Induced Ocular Hypertension Requiring Bilateral
Trabeculectomies in a Patient with Takayasu's Arteritis.

Gruener AM(1), Sharma P(1), Ameen S(1), Ahmed F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Western Eye Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK.

We present a rare case of severe corticosteroid-induced ocular hypertension (OHT)
after prolonged systemic corticosteroid use in a young woman with Takayasu's
arteritis. As she did not sufficiently respond to ocular antihypertensive
therapies, bilateral enhanced trabeculectomies were required to normalize her
intraocular pressures. The systemic side effects of corticosteroids are well
known, yet steroid-induced OHT and glaucoma remain silent causes of ocular
morbidity. This case highlights the importance of IOP-monitoring in visually
asymptomatic patients on systemic corticosteroids. It further emphasizes the need
to raise awareness of the potential ocular side effects of steroids amongst
physicians, in particular those looking after patients with autoimmune and
inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/5253029 
PMCID: PMC5121439
PMID: 27957366  [PubMed]


168. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2016 Nov;42(11):1634-1641. doi:
10.1016/j.jcrs.2016.08.016.

Modified 360-degree suture trabeculotomy combined with phacoemulsification and
intraocular lens implantation for glaucoma and coexisting cataract.

Shinmei Y(1), Kijima R(2), Nitta T(2), Ishijima K(2), Ohguchi T(2), Chin S(2),
Ishida S(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology (Shinmei, Kijima, Ishijima, Ohguchi,
Chin, Ishida), Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, and the Kaimeido 
Eye and Dental Clinic (Nitta), Sapporo, Japan. Electronic address:
yshinmei@med.hokudai.ac.jp. (2)From the Department of Ophthalmology (Shinmei,
Kijima, Ishijima, Ohguchi, Chin, Ishida), Hokkaido University Graduate School of 
Medicine, and the Kaimeido Eye and Dental Clinic (Nitta), Sapporo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To assess the efficacy and safety of a modified 360-degree suture
trabeculotomy combined with a cataract surgery technique in patients with
glaucoma and coexisting cataract.
SETTING: Hokkaido University Hospital, Sapporo, Japan.
DESIGN: Retrospective case series.
METHODS: Medical records of patients with glaucoma having a modified 360-degree
trabeculotomy combined with cataract surgery (Group 1) were reviewed. Another
group of patients who had the modified 360-degree suture trabeculotomy alone
served as controls (Group 2).
RESULTS: Both groups comprised 46 patients. In each group, eyes were diagnosed
with primary angle-closure glaucoma in 2 eyes, primary open-angle glaucoma in 24 
eyes, exfoliation glaucoma in 4 eyes, uveitic glaucoma in 15 eyes, and steroid
glaucoma in 1 eye. The mean preoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) values were
27.2 mm Hg ± 7.3 (SD) on 3.0 ± 0.5 medications in Group 1 and 27.7 ± 10.7 mm Hg
on 2.9 ± 0.6 medications in Group 2. Twelve months after surgery, the mean IOPs
were 13.4 ± 3.7 mm Hg on 0.8 ± 1.1 medications in Group 1 and 13.9 ± 4.1 mm Hg on
0.6 ± 0.9 medications in Group 2. The success rate (<18 mm Hg) at 12 months was
89.1% and 93.5%, respectively. Major complications included transient IOP spikes 
(30.4% and 37.0%) and prolonged hyphema (10.9% and 6.5%) in Group 1 and Group 2, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The data showed the equivalent effects of suture trabeculotomy
combined with cataract surgery and suture trabeculotomy surgery alone on
postoperative safety and efficacy.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE: None of the authors has a financial or proprietary interest
in any material or method mentioned.

Copyright © 2016 ASCRS and ESCRS. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2016.08.016 
PMID: 27956291  [PubMed - in process]


169. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Dec 9. pii: S0014-4835(16)30530-9. doi:
10.1016/j.exer.2016.12.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuroprotection for glaucoma: Requirements for clinical translation.

Levin LA(1), Crowe ME(2), Quigley HA(3); Lasker/IRRF Initiative on Astrocytes and
Glaucomatous Neurodegeneration Participants.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada;
Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Wisconsin School
of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA. Electronic address:
lalevin@wisc.edu. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University 
of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA. (3)Wilmer
Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Within the field of glaucoma research, neuroprotection is defined as slowing the 
functional loss in glaucoma by a mechanism independent of lowering of intraocular
pressure. There is currently a great potential for research surrounding
neuroprotection as it relates to glaucoma. Anatomical targets for neuroprotection
should focus on upstream rather than downstream factors, and could include any
part of the retinal ganglion cell, the glia, especially astrocytes or Muller
cells, and vasculature. The great number of anatomical targets is exceeded only
by the number of possible biochemical pathways and potential treatments.
Successful treatment may be accomplished through the targeting of one or even a
combination of multiple pathways. Once a treatment is shown effective in vitro,
it should be evaluated in vivo with carefully chosen animal models and studied in
sufficient numbers to detect statistically and clinically significant effects.
Such a drug should have few systemic side effects and its delivery should be
optimized so as to encourage compliance. There are still a multitude of possible 
screens available to test the efficacy of a neuroprotective drug and a single
gold standard is ideal for the accurate assessment and comparison of new drugs.
Future studies in neuroprotection should investigate the genetic component of the
disease, novel pharmaceutical agents for new or known pathways, modulations of
scleral biomechanics, and relation to research of other complex disorders of the 
central nervous system.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.12.005 
PMID: 27955999  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


170. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Dec 1;57(15):6596-6603. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-20561.

Novel Bruch's Membrane Opening Minimum Rim Area Equalizes Disc Size Dependency
and Offers High Diagnostic Power for Glaucoma.

Enders P(1), Adler W(2), Schaub F(1), Hermann MM(1), Dietlein T(1), Cursiefen
C(1), Heindl LM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(2)Department of Medical Informatics, Biometry, and Epidemiology,
Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.

Purpose: The purpose of this study was to assess the diagnostic power of the
novel two-dimensional parameter Bruch's membrane opening minimal rim area
(BMO-MRA) in spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) for detection 
of glaucoma compared to minimal rim width (BMO-MRW) and retinal nerve fiber layer
(RNFL) thickness in large and small optic discs.
Methods: In this case-control, cross-sectional study, 207 eyes of 207
participants, including 89 controls and 97 patients with glaucoma and 21 with
ocular hypertension (OHT), with a disc size <1.63 mm2 or >2.43 mm2 underwent
SD-OCT, confocal laser scanning tomography (CSLT), visual field testing, and
clinical examination. Bruch's membrane opening-MRA BMO-MRW, RNFL thickness of
SD-OCT and disc margin rim area (DM-RA) of CSLT were evaluated and analyzed for
diagnostic power to detect glaucoma.
Results: In healthy eyes with macrodiscs, mean BMO-MRW of 243.14 ± 43.12 μm was
significantly smaller than BMO-MRW in microdiscs (338.97 ± 69.39; P < 0.001).
Bruch's membrane opening-MRA was comparable between disc size groups with 1.22 ± 
0.25 mm2 for macrodiscs and 1.26 ± 0.27 mm2 for microdiscs (P = 0.51), as was
RNFL thickness (82.69 ± 15.76 μm versus 78.53 ± 11.01 μm, respectively; P =
0.28). Perimetric mean deviation was -8.7 ± 6.3 dB in glaucoma and -0.6 ± 1.60 dB
in OHT patients. Correlation of BMO-MRA and visual field function was rho (ρ) =
0.70 (P < 0.001). Diagnostic power to differentiate glaucoma patients was highest
for BMO-MRA. Partial area under the curve (pAUC) for BMO-MRA was 0.14 for
specificity between 0.8 and 1.0, exceeding pAUCs of BMO-MRW (P < 0.001), RNFL
thickness (P = 0.03), and DM-RA (P = 0.01).
Conclusions: Bruch's membrane opening-based minimum rim area measurements offer
advantages compared to one-dimensional parameters assessing neuroretinal rim by
SD-OCT. In nonglaucomatous eyes, BMO-MRA values seem comparable for the full
range of disc sizes. Bruch's membrane opening-MRA surpasses other parameters in
diagnostic power for glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-20561 
PMID: 27951592  [PubMed - in process]


171. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Dec 1;57(15):6700-6711. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-20573.

A Period of Controlled Elevation of IOP (CEI) Produces the Specific Gene
Expression Responses and Focal Injury Pattern of Experimental Rat Glaucoma.

Morrison JC(1), Cepurna WO(1), Tehrani S(1), Choe TE(1), Jayaram H(2), Lozano
DC(1), Fortune B(3), Johnson EC(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Kenneth C. Swan Ocular Neurobiology Laboratory, Casey Eye Institute,
Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, Oregon, United States. (2)The
Kenneth C. Swan Ocular Neurobiology Laboratory, Casey Eye Institute, Oregon
Health and Science University, Portland, Oregon, United States 2Glaucoma Service,
NIHR Moorfields Biomedical Research Centre, London, United Kingdom. (3)Devers Eye
Institute, Portland, Oregon, United States.

Purpose: We determine if several hours of controlled elevation of IOP (CEI) will 
produce the optic nerve head (ONH) gene expression changes and optic nerve (ON)
damage pattern associated with early experimental glaucoma in rats.
Methods: The anterior chambers of anesthetized rats were cannulated and connected
to a reservoir to elevate IOP. Physiologic parameters were monitored. Following
CEI at various recovery times, ON cross-sections were graded for axonal injury.
Anterior ONHs were collected at 0 hours to 10 days following CEI and RNA
extracted for quantitative PCR measurement of selected messages. The functional
impact of CEI was assessed by electroretinography (ERG).
Results: During CEI, mean arterial pressure (99 ± 6 mm Hg) and other physiologic 
parameters remained stable. An 8-hour CEI at 60 mm Hg produced significant focal 
axonal degeneration 10 days after exposure, with superior lesions in 83% of ON.
Message analysis in CEI ONH demonstrated expression responses previously
identified in minimally injured ONH following chronic IOP elevation, as well as
their sequential patterns. Anesthesia with cannulation at 20 mm Hg did not alter 
these message levels. Electroretinographic A- and B-waves, following a
significant reduction at 2 days after CEI, were fully recovered at 2 weeks, while
peak scotopic threshold response (pSTR) remained mildly but significantly
depressed.
Conclusions: A single CEI reproduces ONH message changes and patterns of ON
injury previously observed with chronic IOP elevation. Controlled elevation of
IOP can allow detailed determination of ONH cellular and functional responses to 
an injurious IOP insult and provide a platform for developing future therapeutic 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-20573 
PMCID: PMC5156512
PMID: 27942722  [PubMed - in process]


172. Comput Aided Des Appl. 2016;13(5):693-700. Epub 2016 Mar 1.

Measuring Mean Cup Depth in the Optic Nerve Head.

Johnstone JK(1), Rhodes L(2), Fazio M(2), Smith B(2), Wang L(2), Downs JC(2),
Owsley C(2), Girkin CA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer and Information Sciences, UAB, jkj@uab.edu; Department 
of Ophthalmology, UAB. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, UAB.

Since the deformation of structures in the optic nerve head (ONH) is associated
with glaucoma and other diseases of the optic nerve, measurement of this
deformation is of current research interest. This paper considers the computation
of cup depth, a measurement of the depth of the internal limiting membrane (ILM).
The computation of cup depth requires a reference structure against which to
measure the ILM, and the construction of two reference structures is discussed,
one based on Bruch's membrane opening (BMO) and the other based on the anterior
surface of the peripapillary sclera (AS). A main focus of the paper is the robust
computation of mean cup depth, which requires a good sampling of a reconstruction
of the ILM surface. To evaluate our algorithm, the construction of synthetic
datasets is considered.

DOI: 10.1080/16864360.2016.1150716 
PMCID: PMC5142746 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 27942258  [PubMed]


173. Cornea. 2016 Dec 8. [Epub ahead of print]

Russian Keratoprosthesis in Stevens-Johnson Syndrome.

Ma X(1), Xiang R, Meng X, Qin L, Wu Y, Tain L, Jiang Y, Huang Y, Wang L.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Beijing Shijitan Hospital, Capital Medical
University, Beijing, China; †Department of Ophthalmology, Chinese PLA General
Hospital, Beijing, China; and ‡Department of Ophthalmology, Rocket Force General 
Hospital, Beijing, China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of Moscow Eye Microsurgery Complex
in Russia (MICOF) keratoprosthesis (KPro) implantation in patients with
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS).
METHODS: This was a retrospective case series. Fourteen eyes of 13 patients with 
SJS underwent KPro implantation at the Chinese People's Liberation Army General
Hospital between April 1, 2000, and December 24, 2014. The visual outcome, KPro
retention rate, and incidence of postoperative complications and their management
were recorded and investigated.
RESULTS: The mean age and follow-up duration were 61.5 ± 17.3 years (range: 27-87
yrs) and 62 ± 39.1 months (range: 13-144 mo). Thirteen eyes (92.9%) achieved a
best-corrected visual acuity of 20/200 or better, and 8 eyes (57.1%) achieved a
best-corrected visual acuity of 20/40 or better after surgery. However, 71.4%
(10/14) experienced visual decline because of different postoperative
complications. Common complications included corneal melting, glaucoma, vitritis,
superficial tissue overgrowth, and retroprosthetic membrane, and the incidence of
these complications was 71.4%, 28.6%, 35.7%, 14.3%, and 28.6%, respectively.
After repair and autoauricular cartilage reinforcement, all cases had stable
anatomical retention at the last visit.
CONCLUSIONS: The MICOF KPro improved vision of patients with SJS, but lifelong
surveillance is necessitated because of a high rate of postoperative
complications. Corneal melting was the main reason for KPro failure. Infectious
endophthalmitis and glaucoma were the main risk factors for visual loss.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0000000000001094 
PMID: 27941382  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


174. Clin Sci (Lond). 2017 Jan 1;131(1):87-103.

Angiopoietin-Tie signalling in the cardiovascular and lymphatic systems.

Eklund L(1), Kangas J(1), Saharinen P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Oulu Center for Cell-Matrix Research, Faculty of Biochemistry and Molecular
Medicine, and Biocenter Oulu, Aapistie 5A, FI-90014 Oulu, Finland.
(2)Translational Cancer Biology Program, Research Programs Unit, University of
Helsinki, and Wihuri Research Institute, Biomedicum Helsinki, Haartmaninkatu 8,
P.O.B. 63, FI-00014 University of Helsinki, Finland.

Endothelial cells that form the inner layer of blood and lymphatic vessels are
important regulators of vascular functions and centrally involved in the
pathogenesis of vascular diseases. In addition to the vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) receptor pathway, the angiopoietin (Ang)-Tie system is a second
endothelial cell specific ligand-receptor signalling system necessary for
embryonic cardiovascular and lymphatic development. The Ang-Tie system also
regulates postnatal angiogenesis, vessel remodelling, vascular permeability and
inflammation to maintain vascular homoeostasis in adult physiology. This system
is implicated in numerous diseases where the vasculature has an important
contribution, such as cancer, sepsis, diabetes, atherosclerosis and ocular
diseases. Furthermore, mutations in the TIE2 signalling pathway cause defects in 
vascular morphogenesis, resulting in venous malformations and primary congenital 
glaucoma. Here, we review recent advances in the understanding of the Ang-Tie
signalling system, including cross-talk with the vascular endothelial protein
tyrosine phosphatase (VE-PTP) and the integrin cell adhesion receptors, focusing 
on the Ang-Tie system in vascular development and pathogenesis of vascular
diseases.

© 2016 The Author(s). published by Portland Press Limited on behalf of the
Biochemical Society.

DOI: 10.1042/CS20160129 
PMCID: PMC5146956
PMID: 27941161  [PubMed - in process]


175. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 9. pii: bjophthalmol-2016-309643. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309643. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of ocular and systemic factors on the progression of glaucomatous visual 
field damage in various sectors.

Asaoka R(1), Murata H(1), Fujino Y(1), Hirasawa K(1,)(2), Tanito M(3,)(4), Mizoue
S(5), Mori K(6), Suzuki K(7), Yamashita T(8), Kashiwagi K(9), Miki A(10), Shoji
N(2); Japanese Archive of Multicentral Databases in Glaucoma (JAMDIG)
construction group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Orthoptics and Visual Science, Department of Rehabilitation, School of Allied 
Health Sciences, Kitasato University, Kanagawa, Japan. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Shimane University Faculty of Medicine, Shimane, Japan.
(4)Division of Ophthalmology, Matsue Red Cross Hospital, Shimane, Japan.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Ehime University Graduate School of Medicine,
Ehime, Japan. (6)Department of Ophthalmology, Kyoto Prefectural University of
Medicine, Kyoto, Japan. (7)Department of Ophthalmology, Yamaguchi University
Graduate School of Medicine, Yamaguchi, Japan. (8)Department of Ophthalmology,
Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima,
Japan. (9)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Yamanashi Faculty of
Medicine, Yamanashi, Japan. (10)Department of Ophthalmology, Osaka University
Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND/AIM: To investigate the effects of ocular and systemic risk factors
for glaucomatous progression in different sectors of the visual field (VF).
METHOD: 409 eyes from 268 patients with 10 reliable VFs from the Japanese Archive
of Multicentral Databases in Glaucoma (JAMDIG) were investigated. VFs were
divided into six sectors (mean total deviation (mTD)s20+, mTDs10-20 and mTDs0-10,
>20°, 10-20° and <10° in the superior hemifield, respectively; and mTDi20+,
mTDi10-20 and mTDi0-10, >20°, 10-20° and <10° in the inferior hemifield,
respectively). The relationship between sectorial progression rate and eight
variables (age, mTD at baseline VF, average intraocular pressure (IOP), SD of
IOP, systemic hypertension, migraine, family history of glaucoma and smoking
status) was investigated.
RESULT: The mTD progression rate was -0.21 dB/year. Older age was related to
progression of mTDs20+, mTDs10-20, mTDi20+ and mTDi10-20. Mean IOP was not
related to progression in any VF sector; however, a larger SD of IOP was related 
to progression of mTDs20+, mTDi0-10, mTDi10-20 and mTDi20+. Smoking status was
related to progression in all inferior VF sectors (mTDi0-10, mTDi10-20 and
mTDi20+).
CONCLUSIONS: Smoking status is related to glaucomatous VF progression in all
sectors of the inferior hemifield.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309643 
PMID: 27941050  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


176. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 9. pii: bjophthalmol-2016-309103. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309103. [Epub ahead of print]

Understanding the reasons for loss to follow-up in patients with glaucoma at a
tertiary referral teaching hospital in Korea.

Kim YK(1,)(2), Jeoung JW(1,)(2), Park KH(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To assess the reasons and factors for discontinuation of
follow-up among patients with glaucoma at a tertiary referral teaching hospital
in Seoul, Korea.
METHODS: We identified all adult patients with glaucoma (≥18 years), who had
visited the glaucoma clinic of Seoul National University Hospital between April
2012 and March 2014 and had missed an appointment by at least 12 months. These
patients were traced via cellular phone, and their true status and reasons for
discontinuation of follow-up were documented.
RESULTS: A total of 6848 patients with glaucoma (3512 men and 3336 women) were
considered. Among them, 247 (3.61%) had missed a scheduled appointment by
12 months or more. Among 230 (93.1%) who were successfully traced, 4 (1.7%) had
died and 96 (41.7%) had self-transferred to another glaucoma clinic. Of the 130
patients left, 123 (94.6%) had treatment and follow-up interruptions, and 7
(5.4%) had been treated with alternative medicine. The two main reasons cited for
treatment and follow-up interruptions were lack of understanding regarding the
necessity of follow-up (46.3%) and unawareness of appointment schedule (30.9%).
In stepwise linear regression analysis, older age (p=0.001. β=0.13), male gender 
(p=0.013, β=0.08) and lower baseline intraocular pressure (p=0.005, β=0.11) were 
independently associated with follow-up loss involving treatment interruptions.
CONCLUSIONS: This study's results emphasise the need for ongoing educational
support and improved appointment notification, especially for the elderly, men
and patients with low baseline intraocular pressure.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309103 
PMID: 27941049  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


177. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 9. pii: bjophthalmol-2016-309504. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309504. [Epub ahead of print]

The association between skin autofluorescence and mean deviation in patients with
open-angle glaucoma.

Himori N(1), Kunikata H(1,)(2), Kawasaki R(3), Shiga Y(1), Omodaka K(1,)(4),
Takahashi H(1,)(5), Miyata T(6), Nakazawa T(1,)(2,)(4,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Japan. (2)Department of Retinal Disease Control, Tohoku University
Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. (3)Department of Public Health,
Yamagata University Graduate School of Medicine, Yamagata, Japan. (4)Department
of Ophthalmic Imaging and Information Analytics, Tohoku University Graduate
School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. (5)Division of Ophthalmology, Department of
Medicine, Tohoku Medical and Pharmaceutical University, Sendai, Japan.
(6)Department of Molecular Medicine and Therapy, Tohoku University Graduate
School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. (7)Department of Advanced Ophthalmic Medicine,
Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan.

BACKGROUND: It has been suggested that local and systemic oxidative stress levels
are causal risk factors for glaucoma.
AIM: To evaluate the effect of age on the role of systemic oxidative stress in
open-angle glaucoma (OAG).
METHODS: This study included 502 eyes of 251 Japanese patients with OAG. Systemic
oxidative stress was assessed with skin autofluorescence (SAF), an indicator of
advanced glycogen end products. We selected the youngest and oldest patients by
quartile (≤58 and ≥74 years old, respectively) and determined the univariate
correlation between SAF and mean deviation (MD) of the visual field in both eyes 
of each group. We also investigated the association between SAF and glaucoma in
the youngest group with a logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: The younger subjects with OAG with high SAF had significantly lower
better-eye MD than the younger subjects with normal SAF (p<0.01), but the older
subjects had similar better-eye MD regardless of SAF level. Furthermore, SAF was 
negatively correlated with MD in the youngest subjects (better eye: r=-0.35,
p<0.01, worse eye: r=-0.28, p=0.02), but not in the older subjects. Finally,
mixed-effects regression analysis showed that SAF contributed to the MD in the
younger patients with OAG (p=0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: We found that the relationship between systemic oxidative stress and
visual field loss was strongest in relatively young patients with OAG, suggesting
that the potential benefit of antioxidant therapies to combat systemic oxidative 
stress might be dependent on the age of the patient.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309504 
PMID: 27941048  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


178. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 9. pii: bjophthalmol-2016-309392. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309392. [Epub ahead of print]

Cataract surgery in children with retinopathy of prematurity (ROP): surgical
outcomes.

Ezisi CN(1), Kekunnaya R(1), Jalali S(2), Balakrishnan D(2), Rani PK(2), Mohamed 
A(3), Patil Chhablani P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jasti V Ramanamma Children's Eye Care Centre, L V Prasad Eye Institute,
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India. (2)Smt. Kannuri Santhamma Centre for
Vitreo-retinal Diseases, L V Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh,
India. (3)Prof. Brien Holden Eye Research Centre, L V Prasad Eye Institute,
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India.

PURPOSE: To report the outcomes of cataract surgery in children with retinopathy 
of prematurity (ROP).
METHODS: A retrospective case review of all children diagnosed with ROP from
January 2001 to December 2014 was done and those who underwent cataract surgery
were included in the study. Details of ROP and cataract treatment, postoperative 
complications and outcomes were analysed.
RESULTS: Of the 2258 children diagnosed to have ROP, 28 eyes of 22 children were 
included, 14 boys and 8 girls. Mean age at cataract surgery was 18.9 months
(range 2 months to 12 years). Most common grade of ROP was stage 4 (13 eyes).
Nineteen eyes underwent retinal surgery, scleral buckle (one eye) and laser
(three eyes). Five eyes showed spontaneous regression. Mean duration for the
development of cataract postretinal surgery was 7.76 months (range 2-32 months). 
Nine eyes did not receive a primary intraocular lens (IOL). Intraoperative
posterior capsular rupture occurred in two eyes. Postoperative complications
included visual axis opacification (four), secondary glaucoma (two) and IOL
capture (one). Postoperative visual acuity assessment was possible in 23 eyes, 11
had better than 20/200 vision. Eleven patients had a follow-up of at least
2 years and the mean myopic shift at 2 years was -3.07 D in pseudophakes and
-8.75 D in aphakes.
CONCLUSIONS: Cataracts may develop in children with ROP regardless of the
modality of intervention. Postoperative complications and refractive changes are 
similar to those in eyes without ROP.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309392 
PMID: 27941047  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


179. Biomed Pharmacother. 2017 Jan;85:182-201. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2016.11.125.

Therapeutic role of nitric oxide as emerging molecule.

Kumar S(1), Singh RK(2), Bhardwaj TR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Indo-Soviet Friendship (I.S.F.)
College of Pharmacy, Ferozepur G.T. Road, Moga, Punjab 142001, India; School of
Pharmacy & Emerging Sciences, Baddi University of Emerging Sciences & Technology,
Baddi 173205, India. Electronic address: sahil.mehta187@gmail.com. (2)Department 
of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Shivalik College of Pharmacy, Nangal, Distt.
Roopnagar, Punjab 140126, India. Electronic address: rksingh244@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Indo-Soviet Friendship (I.S.F.)
College of Pharmacy, Ferozepur G.T. Road, Moga, Punjab 142001, India; School of
Pharmacy & Emerging Sciences, Baddi University of Emerging Sciences & Technology,
Baddi 173205, India.

NO has many physiological roles; in inflammation, pain, rheumatoid arthritis,
immune system, gastroprotection, as antioxidant and reported to be a free radical
scavenger.Intensive research on the biological functions of NO and other reactive
nitrogen oxide species demands exogenous sources of NO donors as research tools
and pharmaceuticals. Since the mid-1980s, the development of new NO donors has
offered several advantages over theprevious NO donors, such as spontaneous
release of NO, donation of NO under controlled rates, and even the targeting of
NO to certain tissues. Nitric oxide releasing derivatives of conventional NSAIDs 
have been synthesized not only to avoid gastrotoxicity, but also for making them 
fit for topical delivery, targeting them to brain and increase their analgesic
and anti-inflammatory activity. "Hybrid nitrates" have vital role in different
like NSAIDs, Anti-platelet, Antileukemic, Glaucoma, Antihypertensive,
Antimalarial etc.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2016.11.125 
PMID: 27940398  [PubMed - in process]


180. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2016 Dec 8. pii: S0365-6691(16)30218-0. doi:
10.1016/j.oftal.2016.10.015. [Epub ahead of print]

History of trachoma.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Salazar-Quiñones L(1), Nieves-Moreno M(2), Asorey-García A(2), Díaz-Valle D(3),
Santos-Bueso E(2), García Sanchez J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Neurooftalmología, Servicio de Oftalmología, Hospital Clínico San
Carlos, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Hospital Clínico San Carlos
(IdISSC), Madrid, España. Electronic address: malisq2014@gmail.com. (2)Unidad de 
Neurooftalmología, Servicio de Oftalmología, Hospital Clínico San Carlos,
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Hospital Clínico San Carlos (IdISSC),
Madrid, España. (3)Unidad de Superficie e Inflamación Ocular, Servicio de
Oftalmología, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria
del Hospital Clínico San Carlos (IdISSC), Madrid, España. (4)Unidad de Glaucoma, 
Servicio de Oftalmología, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Instituto de Investigación
Sanitaria del Hospital Clínico San Carlos (IdISSC), Madrid, España.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oftal.2016.10.015 
PMID: 27939803  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


181. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Dec 7. pii: S0014-4835(16)30513-9. doi:
10.1016/j.exer.2016.12.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Differential response and withdrawal profile of glucocorticoid-treated human
trabecular meshwork cells.

Li G(1), Cui G(2), Dismuke WM(1), Navarro I(1), Perkumas K(1), Woodward DF(3),
Stamer WD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University, Durham, NC, United States.
(2)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Collaborative Studies
Coordinating Center, Department of Bioengineering, United States. (3)Imperial
College London, UK. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University, Durham, NC, 
United States. Electronic address: dan.stamer@duke.edu.

The goal of the study was to examine secreted protein response and withdrawal
profiles from cultured human trabecular meshwork (HTM) cells following short- and
long-term glucocorticoid treatment. Primary cultures of five human HTM cell
strains isolated from 5 different individual donor eyes were tested. Confluent
HTM cells were differentiated in culture media containing 1% FBS for at least one
week, and then treated with Dexamethasone (Dex, 100 nM) 3 times/week for 1 or 4
weeks. Cell culture supernatant was collected 3 times per week for 8 weeks.
Secretion profiles of myocilin (MYOC), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2) and
fibronectin (FN) were determined by Western blot analysis and MMP2 activity by
zymography. Dex treatment reduced MMP2 expression and activity, returning to
normal levels shortly after Dex withdrawal in 5 HTM cell strains. All five cell
strains significantly upregulated MYOC in response to Dex treatment by an average
of 17-fold, but recovery to basal levels after Dex withdrawal took vastly
different periods of time depending on cell strain and treatment duration. Dex
treatment significantly increased FN secretion in all strains but one, which
decreased FN secretion in the presence of Dex. Interestingly, secretion of FN and
MYOC negatively correlated during a 4 week recovery period following 4 weeks of
Dex treatment. Taken together, the time course and magnitude of response and
recovery for three different secreted, extracellular matrix-associated proteins
varied greatly between HTM cell strains, which may underlie susceptibility to
glucocorticoid-induced ocular hypertension.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.12.002 
PMID: 27939447  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


182. Can J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;51(6):e167-e168. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.08.018. Epub
2016 Oct 27.

Inadvertent implantation of an iStent in the supraciliary space identified by
ultrasound biomicroscopy.

Mantravadi AV(1), Lin C(1), Kinariwala B(1), Waisbourd M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Research Center, Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(2)Glaucoma Research Center, Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Electronic address: mwaisbourd@willseye.org.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.08.018 
PMID: 27938974  [PubMed - in process]


183. Can J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;51(6):492. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.05.014. Epub 2016 
Jul 19.

Preservative content in generic and brand name glaucoma eye drops.

Hallaji NA(1), Rao PP(2), Trope GE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, Ont. Electronic address:
numan.hallaji@uhn.ca. (2)Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, Health
Sciences Campus, Waterloo, Ont. (3)Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, Ont.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.05.014 
PMID: 27938964  [PubMed - in process]


184. Can J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;51(6):445-451. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.10.001. Epub
2016 Nov 15.

Improvement of the visual field index in clinical glaucoma care.

Cohen SL(1), Rosen AI(2), Tan X(3), Kingdom FA(2).

Author information: 
(1)McGill University, Montreal, Que. Electronic address: shawn.cohen@mcgill.ca.
(2)McGill University, Montreal, Que. (3)University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina.

OBJECTIVE: This article investigates the prevalence and attributes of patients
with open-angle glaucoma who exhibit improvement of visual field loss in a
clinical setting.
DESIGN: We conducted a retrospective chart review of patients in a clinical
glaucoma practice.
PARTICIPANTS: We identified 719 glaucoma patients with at least 5 SITA strategy
visual field tests and a minimum continuous follow-up period of 5 years.
METHODS: The change in the slope of the visual field index (VFI) over time was
illustrated using histogram analysis for the study eye with the worst VFI at
baseline. Multiple variables were analyzed to determine their impact on rates of 
visual field progression, including sex, age, disease staging, intraocular
pressure (IOP), and incisional surgeries. Eyes with severe nonophthalmic and
ophthalmic comorbidities were excluded.
RESULTS: Considering 582 eligible eyes, 232 (39.9%) showed significantly positive
slopes of the VFI as a function of time, 76 (13.1%) showed nonsignificant slopes,
and 276 (47.4%) showed significantly negative slopes. In all, 10 eyes (1.7%)
demonstrated VFI slope improvement of ≥2% per year, whereas 21 (3.6%)
demonstrated VFI slope reduction ≥2% per year. More advanced disease stage was
significantly associated with a negative VFI slope (p < 0.0001). Trabeculectomy
and poor compliance were not associated with a negative VFI slope, whereas
cataract surgery correlated with higher odds of a negative VFI slope (p = 0.048).
CONCLUSIONS: In a clinical setting, a significant VFI improvement over time was
observed over an interval of greater than 5 years.

Copyright © 2016 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.10.001 
PMID: 27938956  [PubMed - in process]


185. Can J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;51(6):438-444. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.06.003. Epub
2016 Oct 1.

Limbus-insertion distance of superior rectus in primary angle closure glaucoma:
an anterior segment OCT study.

Huang W(1), Gao X(1), Zhang X(1), Zhang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Sun
Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China. (2)Zhongshan
Ophthalmic Center, State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Sun Yat-Sen University,
Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.. Electronic address:
zhangxl2@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the distance from the corneoscleral limbus to the insertion
site of the superior rectus of primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) patients
with normal controls and to identify potential characteristics associated with
limbus-insertion distance.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 92 subjects (eyes) were enrolled in the study: 35 were
nonglaucoma controls and 57 were PACG patients.
METHODS: The limbus-insertion distance of the superior rectus was measured by
anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT) and intraoperative
surgical caliper. The anterior chamber parameters were also measured using AS-OCT
to identify potential characteristics associated with limbus-insertion distance.
RESULTS: The limbus-insertion distance of the superior rectus was 0.40 ± 0.08 mm 
shorter in the PACG group than in the normal control group (p < 0.001). Anterior 
segment parameter values, including anterior chamber depth (ACD), anterior
chamber width (ACW), anterior chamber area (ACA), and anterior chamber volume
(ACV), were smaller in the PACG group than in the normal control group, but the
lens vault was larger (all p < 0.001). A shorter limbus-insertion distance of the
superior rectus was significantly associated with shorter axial length and
"crowded" angle (smaller ACD, ACW, ACA, and ACV) (all p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to demonstrate that the limbus-insertion
distance of the superior rectus was shorter in PACG eyes than in normal eyes. The
shorter limbus-insertion distance may be another anatomic characteristic of PACG 
eyes.

Copyright © 2016 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.06.003 
PMID: 27938955  [PubMed - in process]


186. Can J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;51(6):431-437. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.05.019. Epub
2016 Oct 3.

Prospective observation of filtration blebs in high-risk eyes with limbal-based
conjunctival flap.

Matsumoto M(1), Inoue T(2), Kojima S(1), Nakashima KI(1), Fukushima A(1),
Tanihara H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Life Sciences, Kumamoto University,
Kumamoto, Japan. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Life Sciences,
Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan.. Electronic address: noel@da2.so-net.ne.jp.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate time-dependent changes in filtering bleb parameters using 
3-dimensional anterior segment optical coherence tomography (3-D AS-OCT) in
high-risk eyes after a limbal-based trabeculectomy procedure.
DESIGN: Prospective, observational study.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-three patients who underwent uncombined limbal-based
trabeculectomy surgery and who also had a history of prior intraocular surgery.
METHODS: Of 23 eyes, 15 eyes were followed for 1 year without additional glaucoma
surgeries, and their bleb parameters were measured 0.5, 3, 6, and 12 months after
the trabeculectomy using 3-dimensional anterior segment optical coherence
tomography. The correlations of these parameters to other clinical data were
investigated.
RESULTS: Statistical analysis showed significant changes in the bleb wall
thickness (0.7 ± 0.4 mm vs 0.4 ± 0.2 mm; p = 0.007) and fluid cavity height (0.3 
± 0.2 mm vs 0.7 ± 0.4 mm; p = 0.005) between 0.5 and 3 months only. The width of 
the filtration openings at 0.5 months after trabeculectomy (2.1 ± 1.0 mm) was
significantly associated with the intraocular pressure at 12 months (15.1 ± 5.7
mm Hg; R(2) = 0.37, t = -2.65, and p = 0.021).
CONCLUSIONS: The width of the filtration opening in the early stage may be a
prognostic factor for long-term intraocular pressure control.

Copyright © 2016 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.05.019 
PMID: 27938954  [PubMed - in process]


187. Can J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec;51(6):426-430. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.05.003. Epub
2016 Sep 30.

Frequency of unplanned interventions in patients attending for a presumed routine
glaucoma follow-up appointment.

Calafati J(1), Pradhan ZS(1), Birt CM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ont. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ont.. Electronic address: catherine.birt@sunnybrook.ca.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the frequency of patient visits in which an unplanned
treatment modification was required in chronic patients attending a glaucoma
clinic for routine follow-up and to identify the treatment interventions most
commonly employed.
DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 630 previously stable patients attending a glaucoma
clinic for routine follow-up.
METHODS: This was a single-centre survey of all eligible patients returning to an
academic glaucoma clinic. Data regarding whether patients' visit remained routine
or required intervention, which clinical parameter had changed, and any
alterations in treatment regimens were studied.
RESULTS: The percentage of patients found to require a change in management was
20.79% (131 of 630 patients); 16.9% were found to have a cause for change because
of glaucoma, and the remaining 4% required intervention because of a
nonglaucomatous condition. The most common parameter that changed treatment was
intraocular pressure (43.87%), followed by visual fields (21.29%). The frequency 
of abnormal parameters varied within each subtype of glaucoma. The frequency of
treatment changes among those with primary open-angle glaucoma was 22.58%
compared with 16.5% of glaucoma suspects, 14% of ocular hypertensives, 32% of
pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, and 50% of normal tension glaucoma patients. The most
common intervention (32.84%) was a change in antiglaucoma medications. The next
most frequent interventions were laser procedures (21.90%) and surgery (16.06%).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that a significant minority of patients
attending a glaucoma clinic for a routine appointment require treatment
modification.

Copyright © 2016 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2016.05.003 
PMID: 27938953  [PubMed - in process]


188. Ocul Immunol Inflamm. 2016 Dec 12:1-8. [Epub ahead of print]

Uveitic Glaucoma: Long-term Clinical Outcome and Risk Factors for Progression.

Sharon Y(1), Friling R(2,)(3), Luski M(1,)(3), Campoverde BQ(4), Amer R(4),
Kramer M(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Hospital ,
Petach Tikva , Israel. (2)b Pediatric Ophthalmology Unit , Schneider Children's
Medical Center of Israel , Petach Tikva , Israel. (3)c Sackler Faculty of
Medicine , Tel Aviv University , Tel Aviv , Israel. (4)d Department of
Ophthalmology , Hadassah University Hospital , Jerusalem , Israel.

PURPOSE: To study the long-term clinical outcomes of uveitic glaucoma and to
identify risk factors for progression.
METHODS: Retrospective study of uveitic glaucoma patients in two tertiary medical
centers in 2003-2015. Patient- and disease-related data was retrieved. Clinical
parameters and visual fields measured at predetermined time points were recorded.
Outcome measures included maintaining intraocular pressure ≤21 mmHg and
preserving visual fields.
RESULTS: Included were 34 patients (53 eyes), with a mean follow-up of 7 years.
Idiopathic anterior uveitis and open-angle glaucoma were most common. In total,
62% of eyes were steroid responders. Higher IOP was associated with posterior
synechiae, peripheral-anterior synechiae, steroidal, and immunomodulatory therapy
(p<0.05). Glaucomatous field defects developed in 49%, with most showing no
progression, despite elevation of cup-to-disc ratio (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic severe uveitis, expressed by structural complications and
immunomodulatory therapy, was associated with high IOP and the need for more IOP 
lowering medications, but was unrelated to glaucomatous damage.

DOI: 10.1080/09273948.2016.1255341 
PMID: 27937076  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


189. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 9;11(12):e0168231. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168231.
eCollection 2016.

Correction: Intrasession and Between-Visit Variability of Sector Peripapillary
Angioflow Vessel Density Values Measured with the Angiovue Optical Coherence
Tomograph in Different Retinal Layers in Ocular Hypertension and Glaucoma.

PLOS ONE Staff.

Erratum for
    PLoS One. 2016 Aug 18;11(8):e0161631.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0161631.].

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168231 
PMCID: PMC5148093
PMID: 27936241  [PubMed - in process]


190. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 9;11(12):e0167828. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167828.
eCollection 2016.

Lutein Attenuates Both Apoptosis and Autophagy upon Cobalt (II) Chloride-Induced 
Hypoxia in Rat Műller Cells.

Fung FK(1), Law BY(2), Lo AC(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong S.A.R. (2)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in
Chinese Medicine, Macau University of Science and Technology, Macau, China.
(3)Research Centre of Heart, Brain, Hormone and Healthy Aging, Li Ka Shing
Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong S.A.R.

Retinal ischemia/reperfusion injury is a common feature of various retinal
diseases such as glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy. Lutein, a potent
anti-oxidant, is used to improve visual function in patients with age-related
macular degeneration (AMD). Lutein attenuates apoptosis, oxidative stress and
inflammation in animal models of acute retinal ischemia/hypoxia. Here, we further
show that lutein improved Műller cell viability and enhanced cell survival upon
hypoxia-induced cell death through regulation of intrinsic apoptotic pathway.
Moreover, autophagy was activated upon treatment of cobalt (II) chloride,
indicating that hypoxic injury not only triggered apoptosis but also autophagy in
our in vitro model. Most importantly, we report for the first time that lutein
treatment suppressed autophagosome formation after hypoxic insult and lutein
administration could inhibit autophagic event after activation of autophagy by a 
pharmacological approach (rapamycin). Taken together, lutein may have a
beneficial role in enhancing glial cell survival after hypoxic injury through
regulating both apoptosis and autophagy.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167828 
PMCID: PMC5148028
PMID: 27936094  [PubMed - in process]


191. Eye (Lond). 2016 Dec 9. doi: 10.1038/eye.2016.277. [Epub ahead of print]

Structural and functional assessment of macula to diagnose glaucoma.

Rao HL(1,)(2), Hussain RS(1), Januwada M(1), Pillutla LN(1), Begum VU(1),
Chaitanya A(1), Senthil S(1), Garudadri CS(1).

Author information: 
(1)VST Glaucoma Center, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, India. (2)Narayana
Nethralaya, Rajajinagar, Bangalore, India.

PurposeTo compare the diagnostic abilities of structural (ganglion cell-inner
plexiform layer (GCIPL) thickness measured using spectral domain optical
coherence tomography (SDOCT)) and functional (visual sensitivities measured using
standard automated perimetry (SAP) and microperimetry (MP)) assessments of macula
in glaucoma.MethodsIn a prospective study, 46 control eyes (28 subjects) and 61
glaucoma eyes (46 patients) underwent visual sensitivity estimation at macula
(central 10°) by SAP and MP, and GCIPL thickness measurement at macula by SDOCT. 
Glaucoma was diagnosed by experts based on the optic disc and retinal nerve fiber
layer changes. Area under the receiver-operating characteristic (AUC) curves and 
sensitivities at 95% specificity were used to assess the diagnostic ability of
visual sensitivity and GCIPL measurements at various macular sectors.ResultsAUCs 
of GCIPL parameters ranged between 0.58 and 0.79. AUCs of SAP and MP
sensitivities ranged between 0.59 and 0.71, and 0.59 and 0.72, respectively.
There were no statistically significant differences between the AUCs of
corresponding sector measurements (P>0.10 for all comparisons). Sensitivities at 
95% specificities ranged from 31-59% for GCIPL parameters, 16-34% for SAP, and
8-38% for MP parameters. Sensitivities were significantly better with GCIPL
compared with SAP and MP parameters in diagnosing glaucoma. Inferotemporal,
inferior, and superotemporal sector measurements of GCIPL and visual sensitivity 
showed the best abilities to diagnose glaucoma.ConclusionsComparing the
diagnostic abilities of structural and functional tests at macula in glaucoma,
GCIPL thickness measurements with SDOCT performed better than the visual
sensitivity measurements by SAP and MP.Eye advance online publication, 9 December
2016; doi:10.1038/eye.2016.277.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2016.277 
PMID: 27935606  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


192. Eye (Lond). 2016 Dec 9. doi: 10.1038/eye.2016.270. [Epub ahead of print]

Ocular characteristics associated with the location of focal lamina cribrosa
defects in open-angle glaucoma patients.

Park HY(1), Hwang YS(1), Park CK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine,
The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, South Korea.

PurposeTo investigate the clinical characteristics according to the location of
focal lamina cribrosa (LC) defects and its associated ocular features.Patients
and methodsA total of 139 open-angle glaucoma patients underwent Spectralis
optical coherence tomography (OCT) with enhanced depth imaging. Alterations in
the contour of the LC were investigated to find focal LC defects. The location of
the visible LC defect from the neural canal wall (far-peripheral and
mid-peripheral) and clock-hour position (superotemporal, temporal and
inferotemporal) were classified. Disc ovality ratio and disc-foveal angle were
measured from disc and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) photographs. The disc
tilt degree was measured using a Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT) III system.
The en face OCT image of the disc scans was registered to the disc and RNFL
photographs, to determine whether the focal LC defects corresponded spatially to 
the glaucomatous damage location.ResultsEyes with far-peripheral LC defects were 
significantly myopic and had a higher disc ovality ratio. The disc tilt degree
obtained by HRT revealed significant temporal disc tilt in eyes with temporal LC 
defects (P<0.001). Eyes with inferotemporal LC defects had a significantly larger
disc-foveal angle (P=0.027). The inferotemporal LC defects corresponded to the
location of glaucomatous damage in 81.6%; however, only 46.2% of eyes with a
superotemporal LC defect and 3.2% of eyes with a temporal LC defect corresponded 
spatially with the glaucomatous damage location.ConclusionsThe clinical
characteristics and association with glaucomatous damage location were different 
according to the location of focal LC defect.Eye advance online publication, 9
December 2016; doi:10.1038/eye.2016.270.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2016.270 
PMID: 27935604  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


193. Eye (Lond). 2016 Dec 9. doi: 10.1038/eye.2016.267. [Epub ahead of print]

Anterior segment imaging-based subdivision of subjects with primary angle-closure
glaucoma.

Nongpiur ME(1,)(2), Atalay E(1), Gong T(3), Loh M(3), Lee HK(3), He M(4), Perera 
SA(1,)(5), Aung T(1,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore, Singapore. (2)Duke-NUS Graduate
Medical School, Singapore, Singapore. (3)Bioinformatics Institute, A*STAR (Agency
for Science, Technology and Research), Singapore, Singapore. (4)State Key
Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University,
Guangzhou, China. (5)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore, Singapore. (6)Yong
Loo Lin School of Medicine, Department of Ophthalmology, National University of
Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.

PurposeThe purpose of this study was to identify whether it was possible to
subdivide subjects with primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) based on anterior
segment optical coherence tomography (ASOCT) imaging, and to determine the
characteristics of such subgroups.MethodsWe evaluated 210 subjects with PACG. All
subjects underwent gonioscopy and ASOCT imaging. Customized software was used to 
measure ASOCT parameters. An agglomerative hierarchical clustering method was
first used to determine the optimum number of parameters to be included in the
determination of subgroups. Then, the best number of subgroups was determined
using Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) and Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM)
methods.ResultsThe mean age of the subjects was 67.9 years, and 53.3% were
female. Following the hierarchical clustering, four parameters (iris area,
anterior chamber depth (ACD), anterior chamber width (ACW), and lens vault (LV)) 
were chosen to be representative of related parameters. The optimal number of
subgroups using GMM analysis and AIC was 3. Subgroup 1 (N=89; 42.4%) was
characterized by a large iris area, subgroup 2 (N=24; 11.4%) by a large LV and a 
shallow ACD, whereas subgroup 3 (N=97; 46.2%) displayed only intermediate values 
across iris area, LV, and ACD.ConclusionsWe identified three distinct subgroups
of PACG subjects based on ASOCT imaging.Eye advance online publication, 9
December 2016; doi:10.1038/eye.2016.267.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2016.267 
PMID: 27935603  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


194. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 9:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Intraocular Pressure after Intravitreal Triesence Injection.

Atchison EA(1), Bakri SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Mayo Clinic , Rochester , MN , USA.

PURPOSE: Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) is a frequent adverse event
associated with intravitreal triamcinolone acetate injection. The incidence of
elevated IOP with preserved forms of triamcinolone has been studied but the
effect of preservative-free formulations has not been clinically evaluated.
DESIGN: A retrospective, observational clinical study.
METHODS: For patients undergoing intravitreal injections over the study period,
age, sex, history of glaucoma or ocular hypertension were recorded. For each
injection, preinjection IOP, maximum IOP (IOPmax), dose, and indication for
injection were noted for both eyes.
RESULTS: Fourteen patients received 72 injections in 18 eyes. The mean baseline
IOP was 15.4 mm Hg; the mean IOPmax was 19.8 mm Hg (P<0.001), occurring 63 days
after injection. Outcomes were not significantly different between patients
receiving 2 or 4 mg doses. History of glaucoma did not significantly affect
IOPmax.
CONCLUSIONS: Eyes should be monitored for IOP rises after preservative-free
triamcinolone acetonide injections.

DOI: 10.1080/08820538.2016.1229341 
PMID: 27935332  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


195. J Cell Biochem. 2016 Dec 9. doi: 10.1002/jcb.25827. [Epub ahead of print]

Alteration of Neurotrophic Factors After Transplantation of Bone Marrow Derived
Lin-Ve Stem Cell in NMDA Induced Mouse Model of Retinal Degeneration.

Jindal N(1), Banik A(1), Prabhakar S(2), Vaiphie K(3), Anand A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Lab, Department of Neurology, PGIMER, Chandigarh,
160012, India. (2)Department of Neurology, PGIMER, Chandigarh, 160012, India.
(3)Department of Histopathology, PGIMER, Chandigarh, 160012, India.

Retinal ganglion cell layer (RGCs) is one of the important layers of retina,
depleted in Glaucoma. Loss of RGC neurons is a major cellular mechanism involved 
in its pathogenesis resulting in severe vision loss. Stem cell therapy has
emerged as a potential strategy to arrest the apoptotic loss of RGCs and also
replace the degenerative cells in damaged retina. Here we have investigated the
incorporation and survival of mouse bone marrow derived Lin-ve stem cells in
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) induced mouse model of retinal degeneration. Two days
after intravitreal injection of NMDA (100mM) showed significant decrease in
ganglion cell number and increase in TUNEL positive apoptotic cells in retinal
layers. The injury was further characterized by immunohistochemical expression of
Brn3b, GFAP, Bcl2, pCREB, CNTF, GDNF and BDNF in retinal layers. Lin-ve cells
(100,000 dose) were intravitreally transplanted after 2 days of injury and
evaluated after 7, 14 and 21 days of transplantation. Transplanted cells were
found to have migrated from intravitreal space and incorporated into injured
retina at 7, 14 and 21 days post transplantation. At 21 days Brn3b, CNTF and BDNF
expression was found to be upregulated whereas GDNF was downregulated when
compared to respective injury time points. Molecular data showed decrease in the 
expression of Brn3b, BDNF, CNTF and GDNF post transplantation when compared with 
injury groups. This study reveals that Lin-ve stem cells may exert
neuroprotective effect in damaged retina mediated by participation of
neurotrophic factors induced by stem cell transplantation at the site of injury. 
This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.25827 
PMID: 27935095  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


196. J Biomech Eng. 2016 Dec 9. doi: 10.1115/1.4035406. [Epub ahead of print]

Intracranial pressure influences the behavior of optic nerve head.

Hua Y(1), Tong J(2), Ghate D(3), Kedar S(4), Gu L(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, University of
Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE 68588-0656huayixiaolu@gmail.com. (2)Department of
Mechanical and Materials Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE
68588-0656tongjunfei094@gmail.com. (3)Stanley Truhlsen Eye Institute, University 
of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68105-1119Center for Advanced Surgical
Technology, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE
68198-6245dghate@unmc.edu. (4)Stanley Truhlsen Eye Institute, University of
Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68105-1119Department of Neurological Sciences,
University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198-8440sachin.kedar@unmc.edu.
(5)Department of Mechanical and Materials Engineering, University of
Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE 68588-0656Center for Advanced Surgical Technology, 
University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198-6245Nebraska Center for
Materials and Nanoscience, Lincoln, NE 68588-0656lgu2@unl.edu.

In this work, the biomechanical responses of the optic nerve head (ONH) to acute 
elevations in intracranial pressure (ICP) were systematically investigated
through numerical modeling. An orthogonal experimental design was developed to
quantify the significance levels of ten input factors that govern the anatomy and
material properties of the ONH model on the peak maximum principal strain (MPS)
in the laminar cribrosa (LC) and post-laminar neural tissue (PLNT). Results show 
that the sensitivity of ONH responses to various input factors was
region-specific. In the LC, the peak MPS was most strongly dependent on the
sclera thickness, LC modulus, and scleral canal size, whereas in the PLNT, the
peak MPS was more sensitive to the scleral canal size, neural tissue modulus, and
pia mater modulus. The enforcement of clinically relevant ICP in the
retro-orbital subarachnoid space influences the sensitivity analysis. It also
induced much larger strains in the PLNT rather in the LC. Moreover, acute
elevation of ICP led to dramatic strain distribution changes in PLNT, but has
minimal impact on LC. This work could help to better understand the
patient-specific responses, to provide guidance on biomechanical factors leading 
to the optic nerve diseases such as glaucoma, papilledema, and ischemic optic
neuropathy, and to illuminate the possibilities for exploiting their potential to
prevent ONH diseases.

DOI: 10.1115/1.4035406 
PMID: 27935009  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


197. J Med Chem. 2016 Dec 8;59(23):10692-10704. Epub 2016 Nov 21.

Benzenesulfonamides Incorporating Flexible Triazole Moieties Are Highly Effective
Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors: Synthesis and Kinetic, Crystallographic,
Computational, and Intraocular Pressure Lowering Investigations.

Nocentini A(1,)(2), Ferraroni M(3), Carta F(1), Ceruso M(3), Gratteri P(2), Lanzi
C(4), Masini E(4), Supuran CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Università degli Studi di Firenze , Neurofarba Department., Sezione di Scienze
Farmaceutiche, Via Ugo Schiff 6, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino (Florence), Italy.
(2)Università degli Studi di Firenze , Neurofarba Department., Sezione di Scienze
Farmaceutiche, Laboratory of Molecular Modeling Cheminformatics & QSAR, via U.
Schiff 6, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino (Florence), Italy. (3)Università degli Studi di 
Firenze , Polo Scientifico, Via della Lastruccia 3, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino
(Florence), Italy. (4)Università degli Studi di Firenze , Neurofarba Department.,
Sezione di Farmacologia, Viale Pieraccini 6, 50139 Florence, Italy.

Herein we report the synthesis of two series of benzenesulfonamide containing
compounds that incorporate the phenyl-1,2,3-triazole moieties. We explored the
insertion of appropriate linkers, such as ether, thioether, and amino type, into 
the inner section of the molecules with the intent to confer additional
flexibility. All obtained compounds were screened in vitro as inhibitors of the
physiologically relevant human (h) isoforms of the metalloenzyme carbonic
anhydrase (CA, EC 4.2.1.1). Many of them were low nanomolar or subnanomolar hCA
II, IX, and XII inhibitors, whereas they did not potently inhibit hCA I.
Computational and X-ray crystallographic studies of the enzyme-inhibitor adducts 
helped us to rationalize the obtained results. Some of the sulfonamides reported 
here showed significant intraocular pressure lowering activity in an animal model
of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.6b01389 
PMID: 27933963  [PubMed - in process]


198. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1488:391-417.

Systems Genetics Analysis to Identify the Genetic Modulation of a
Glaucoma-Associated Gene.

Chintalapudi SR(1), Jablonski MM(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Hamilton Eye Institute, The University
of Tennessee Health Science Center, 930 Madison Ave., Suite 710, Memphis, TN,
38163, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Hamilton Eye Institute, The
University of Tennessee Health Science Center, 930 Madison Ave., Suite 710,
Memphis, TN, 38163, USA. mjanlonski@uthsc.edu. (3)Department of Anatomy and
Neurobiology, Hamilton Eye Institute, The University of Tennessee Health Science 
Center, 930 Madison Ave., Suite 710, Memphis, TN, 38163, USA.
mjanlonski@uthsc.edu. (4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hamilton Eye
Institute, The University of Tennessee Health Science Center, 930 Madison Ave.,
Suite 710, Memphis, TN, 38163, USA. mjanlonski@uthsc.edu.

Loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) is one of the hallmarks of retinal
neurodegenerative diseases, glaucoma being one of the most common. Recently,
γ-synuclein (SNCG) was shown to be highly expressed in the somas and axons of
RGCs. In various mouse models of glaucoma, downregulation of Sncg gene expression
correlates with RGC loss. To investigate the regulation of Sncg in RGCs, we used 
a systems genetics approach to identify a gene that modulates the expression of
Sncg, followed by confirmatory studies in both healthy and diseased retinas. We
found that chromosome 1 harbors an eQTL that modulates the expression of Sncg in 
the mouse retina and identified Pfdn2 as the candidate upstream modulator of Sncg
expression. Downregulation of Pfdn2 in enriched RGCs causes a concomitant
reduction in Sncg. In this chapter, we describe our strategy and methods for
identifying and confirming a genetic modulation of a glaucoma-associated gene. A 
similar method can be applied to other genes expressed in other tissues.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6427-7_18 
PMID: 27933535  [PubMed - in process]


199. Front Cell Neurosci. 2016 Nov 23;10:270. eCollection 2016.

Neuronal Release of Cytokine IL-3 Triggered by Mechanosensitive Autostimulation
of the P2X7 Receptor Is Neuroprotective.

Lim JC(1), Lu W(1), Beckel JM(2), Mitchell CH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of Pennsylvania
Philadelphia, PA, USA. (2)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology,
University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (3)Department of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, University of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA, USA; Department of
Physiology, University of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA, USA; Department of
Ophthalmology, University of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA, USA.

Mechanical strain due to increased pressure or swelling activates inflammatory
responses in many neural systems. As cytokines and chemokine messengers lead to
both pro-inflammatory and neuroprotective actions, understanding the signaling
patterns triggered by mechanical stress may help improve overall outcomes. While 
cytokine signaling in neural systems is often associated with glial cells like
astrocytes and microglia, the contribution of neurons themselves to the cytokine 
response is underappreciated and has bearing on any balanced response. Mechanical
stretch of isolated neurons was previously shown to trigger ATP release through
pannexin hemichannels and autostimulation of P2X7 receptors (P2X7Rs) on the
neural membrane. Given that P2X7Rs are linked to cytokine activation in other
cells, this study investigates the link between neuronal stretch and cytokine
release through a P2X7-dependent pathway. Cytokine assays showed application of a
4% strain to isolated rat retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) released multiple
cytokines. The P2X7R agonist BzATP also released multiple cytokines; Interleukin 
3 (IL-3), TNF-α, CXCL9, VEGF, L-selectin, IL-4, GM-CSF, IL-10, IL-1Rα, MIP and
CCL20 were released by both stimuli, with the release of IL-3 greatest with
either stimuli. Stretch-dependent IL-3 release was confirmed with ELISA and
blocked by P2X7R antagonists A438079 and Brilliant Blue G (BBG), implicating
autostimulation of the P2X7R in stretch-dependent IL-3 release. Neuronal IL-3
release triggered by BzATP required extracellular calcium. The IL-3Rα receptor
was expressed on RGCs but not astrocytes, and both IL-3Rα and IL-3 itself were
predominantly expressed in the retinal ganglion cell layer of adult retinal
sections, implying autostimulation of receptors by released IL-3. While the
number of surviving ganglion cells decreased with time in culture, the addition
of IL-3 protected against this loss of neurons. Expression of mRNA for IL-3 and
IL-3Rα increased in rat retinas stretched with moderate intraocular pressure
(IOP) elevation; BBG blocked the rise in IL-3, implicating a role for the P2X7R
in transcriptional regulation in vivo. In summary, mechanical stretch triggers
release of cytokines from neurons that can convey neuroprotection. The
enhancement of these signals in vivo implicates P2X7R-mediated IL-3 signaling as 
an endogenous pathway that could minimize damage following neuronal exposure to
chronic mechanical strain.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2016.00270 
PMCID: PMC5120082
PMID: 27932954  [PubMed - in process]


200. Front Neurosci. 2016 Nov 24;10:526. eCollection 2016.

Loss of Fractalkine Signaling Exacerbates Axon Transport Dysfunction in a Chronic
Model of Glaucoma.

Breen KT(1), Anderson SR(1), Steele MR(1), Calkins DJ(2), Bosco A(1), Vetter
ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurobiology and Anatomy, University of Utah Salt Lake City,
UT, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Vanderbilt
University Nashville, TN, USA.

Neurodegeneration in glaucoma results in decline and loss of retinal ganglion
cells (RGCs), and is associated with activation of myeloid cells such as
microglia and macrophages. The chemokine fractalkine (FKN or Cx3cl1) mediates
communication from neurons to myeloid cells. Signaling through its receptor
Cx3cr1 has been implicated in multiple neurodegenerative diseases, but the
effects on neuronal pathology are variable. Since it is unknown how FKN-mediated 
crosstalk influences RGC degeneration in glaucoma, we assessed this in a chronic 
mouse model, DBA/2J. We analyzed a DBA/2J substrain deficient in Cx3cr1, and
compared compartmentalized RGC degeneration and myeloid cell responses to those
in standard DBA/2J mice. We found that loss of FKN signaling exacerbates axon
transport dysfunction, an early event in neurodegeneration, with a significant
increase in RGCs with somal accumulation of the axonal protein phosphorylated
neurofilament, and reduced retinal expression of genes involved in axon
transport, Kif1b, and Atp8a2. There was no change in the loss of Brn3-positive
RGCs, and no difference in the extent of damage to the proximal optic nerve,
suggesting that the loss of fractalkine signaling primarily affects axon
transport. Since Cx3cr1 is specifically expressed in myeloid cells, we assessed
changes in retinal microglial number and activation, changes in gene expression, 
and the extent of macrophage infiltration. We found that loss of fractalkine
signaling led to innate immune changes within the retina, including increased
infiltration of peripheral macrophages and upregulated nitric oxide synthase-2
(Nos-2) expression in myeloid cells, which contributes to the production of NO
and can promote axon transport deficits. In contrast, resident retinal microglia 
appeared unchanged either in number, morphology, or expression of the myeloid
activation marker ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1). There was
also no significant increase in the proinflammatory gene interleukin 1 beta
(Il1β). We conclude that loss of fractalkine signaling causes a selective
worsening of axon transport dysfunction in RGCs, which is linked to enhanced
Nos-2 expression in myeloid cells. Our findings suggest that distinct mechanisms 
may contribute to different aspects of RGC decline in glaucoma, with axonal
transport selectively altered after loss of Cx3cr1 in microglia and/or
macrophages.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2016.00526 
PMCID: PMC5123443
PMID: 27932942  [PubMed - in process]


201. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 25;10:2369-2376. eCollection 2016.

Central corneal thickness of Iraqi population in relation to age, gender,
refractive errors, and corneal curvature: a hospital-based cross-sectional study.

Kadhim YJ(1), Farhood QK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ibn Al Haitham Teaching Eye Hospital, Baghdad. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
College of Medicine, University of Babylon, Babylon, Iraq.

BACKGROUND: Central corneal thickness (CCT) is an important indicator of corneal 
status. Its measurement provides valid information about corneal physiological
condition and possible changes associated with diseases, traumas, and hypoxia. It
is an integral part for interpretation of intraocular pressure and glaucoma
patient management and in prerefractive procedure assessment.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to determine the mean CCT among a normal
Iraqi population and to correlate between CCT and age, gender, refraction, and
corneal curvature.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This cross-sectional study was carried out at Ibn
Al-Haitham Teaching Eye Hospital. A total of 418 eyes from 209 healthy
individuals with an age range from 20 to 75 years were studied. CCT was measured 
by ultrasound pachymeter. Refraction was measured using an auto-refractor and
confirmed by trial lenses and retinoscopy to calculate the spherical equivalent. 
Corneal curvature was measured using an auto-refracto-keratometer to calculate
the average corneal curvature (AVK).
RESULTS: The mean CCT was 543.95±32.58 μm with a range from 422 to 636 μm. CCT
was not affected by gender. CCT significantly negatively correlated with age and 
AVK. CCT significantly positively correlated with the spherical equivalence.
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION: Among an Iraqi population, CCT significantly
decreased with age. Myopics had significantly thinner corneas. There was weak but
significant negative correlation between CCT and corneal curvature. We recommend 
further studies about the relationship between central corneal thickness and
other ocular parameters in Iraqi population such as the axial length.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S116743 
PMCID: PMC5135410
PMID: 27932859  [PubMed - in process]


202. Ophthalmology. 2016 Dec 5. pii: S0161-6420(16)31809-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.10.029. [Epub ahead of print]

Relationship between Psychophysical Measures of Retinal Ganglion Cell Density and
In Vivo Measures of Cone Density in Glaucoma.

Matlach J(1), Mulholland PJ(2), Cilkova M(3), Chopra R(3), Shah N(3), Redmond
T(4), Dakin SC(5), Garway-Heath DF(3), Anderson RS(6).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, Moorfields 
Eye Hospital and University College London Institute of Ophthalmology, London,
United Kingdom; Department of Ophthalmology, University Medical Center, Johannes 
Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany. (2)National Institute for Health Research
Biomedical Research Centre, Moorfields Eye Hospital and University College London
Institute of Ophthalmology, London, United Kingdom; Vision Science Research
Group, Ulster University, Coleraine, United Kingdom. (3)National Institute for
Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, Moorfields Eye Hospital and
University College London Institute of Ophthalmology, London, United Kingdom.
(4)School of Optometry and Vision Sciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff, United
Kingdom. (5)Department of Optometry & Vision Science, University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand. (6)National Institute for Health Research Biomedical
Research Centre, Moorfields Eye Hospital and University College London Institute 
of Ophthalmology, London, United Kingdom; Vision Science Research Group, Ulster
University, Coleraine, United Kingdom. Electronic address:
rs.anderson@ulster.ac.uk.

PURPOSE: Considerable between-individual variation in retinal ganglion cell (RGC)
density exists in healthy individuals, making identification of change from
normal to glaucoma difficult. In ascertaining local cone-to-RGC density ratios in
healthy individuals, we wished to investigate the usefulness of objective cone
density estimates as a surrogate of baseline RGC density in glaucoma patients,
and thus a more efficient way of identifying early changes.
DESIGN: Exploratory cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty glaucoma patients (60% women) with a median age of 54 years 
and mean deviation (MD) in the visual field of -5 dB and 20 healthy controls (70%
women) with a median age of 57 years and a mean MD of 0 dB were included.
METHODS: Glaucoma patients and healthy participants underwent in vivo cone
imaging at 4 locations of 8.8° eccentricity with a modified Heidelberg Retina
Angiograph HRA2 (scan angle, 3°). Cones were counted using an automated program. 
Retinal ganglion cell density was estimated at the same test locations from
peripheral grating resolution acuity thresholds.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Retinal cone density, estimated RGC density, and
cone-to-RGC ratios in glaucoma patients and healthy controls.
RESULTS: Median cone-to-RGC density was 3.51:1 (interquartile range [IQR],
2.59:1-6.81:1) in glaucoma patients compared with 2.35:1 (IQR, 1.83:1-2.82:1) in 
healthy participants. Retinal ganglion cell density was 33% lower in glaucoma
patients than in healthy participants; however, cone density was very similar in 
glaucoma patients (7248 cells/mm(2)) and healthy controls (7242 cells/mm(2)). The
area under the receiver operator characteristic curve was 0.79 (95% confidence
interval [CI], 0.71-0.86) for both RGC density and cone-to-RGC ratio and 0.49
(95% CI, 0.39-0.58) for cone density.
CONCLUSIONS: Local measurements of cone density do not differ significantly from 
normal in glaucoma patients despite large differences in RGC density. There was
no statistically significant association between RGC density and cone density in 
the normal participants, and the range of cone-to-RGC density ratios was
relatively large in healthy controls. These findings suggest that estimates of
baseline RGC density from cone density are unlikely to be precise and offer
little advantage over determination of RGC alone in the identification of early
glaucomatous change.

Copyright Â© 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.10.029 
PMID: 27932223  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


203. Retina. 2016 Dec 7. [Epub ahead of print]

REPRODUCIBILITY OF VESSEL DENSITY MEASUREMENT WITH OPTICAL COHERENCE TOMOGRAPHY
ANGIOGRAPHY IN EYES WITH AND WITHOUT RETINOPATHY.

You Q(1), Freeman WR, Weinreb RN, Zangwill L, Manalastas PI, Saunders LJ,
Nudleman E.

Author information: 
(1)*Shiley Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, University of
California-San Diego, La Jolla, California; †Jacobs Retina Center, University of 
California-San Diego, La Jolla, California; ‡Hamilton Glaucoma Center, University
of California-San Diego, California; and §Beijing Institutute of Ophthalmology,
Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.

PURPOSE: To determine the intravisit and intervisit reproducibility of optical
coherence tomography angiography measurements of macular vessel density in eyes
with and without retinal diseases.
METHODS: Fifteen healthy volunteers and 22 patients with retinal diseases
underwent repeated optical coherence tomography angiography (Angiovue Imaging
System, Optovue Inc) scans after pupil dilation on 2 separate visit days. For
each visit day, the eyes were scanned twice. Vessel density defined as the
proportion of vessel area with flowing blood over the total measurement area was 
calculated using Angiovue software. Intravisit and intervisit reproducibility
were summarized as coefficient of variations and intraclass correlation
coefficients were calculated from variance component models.
RESULTS: The coefficient of variations representing the intravisit
reproducibility of the superficial macular vessel density measurements for
different quadrants on 3 mm × 3-mm scans varied from 2.1% to 4.9% and 3.4% to
6.8% for healthy and diseased eyes, respectively, and for the intervisit it was
2.9% to 5.1% and 4.0% to 6.8%, respectively. The coefficient of variations were
lower in healthy eyes than in diseased eyes, lower for intravisit than for
intervisit, lower on 3 mm × 3-mm scans than on 6 mm × 6-mm scans, and lower for
paracentral subfields than for central subfield.
CONCLUSION: The evidence presented here demonstrates good reproducibility of
optical coherence tomography angiography for measurement of superficial macula
vessel density in both healthy eyes and eyes with diabetic retinopathy without
diabetic macular edema.

DOI: 10.1097/IAE.0000000000001407 
PMID: 27930458  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


204. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 8:1-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Detection of Glaucoma Using Image Processing Techniques: A Critique.

Kumar BN(1), Chauhan RP(1), Dahiya N(1).

Author information: 
(1)a School of Biomedical Engineering , National Institute of Technology ,
Kurukshetra , India.

OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of this article is to present a summary of
different types of image processing methods employed for the detection of
glaucoma, a serious eye disease.
INTRODUCTION: Glaucoma affects the optic nerve in which retinal ganglion cells
become dead, and this leads to loss of vision. The principal cause is the
increase in intraocular pressure, which occurs in open-angle and angle-closure
glaucoma, the two major types affecting the optic nerve. In the early stages of
glaucoma, no perceptible symptoms appear. As the disease progresses, vision
starts to become hazy, leading to blindness. Therefore, early detection of
glaucoma is needed for prevention.
METHODOLOGY/APPROACH: Manual analysis of ophthalmic images is fairly
time-consuming and accuracy depends on the expertise of the professionals.
Automatic analysis of retinal images is an important tool. Automation aids in the
detection, diagnosis, and prevention of risks associated with the disease. Fundus
images obtained from a fundus camera have been used for the analysis. Requisite
pre-processing techniques have been applied to the image and, depending upon the 
technique, various classifiers have been used to detect glaucoma.
CONCLUSION: The techniques mentioned in the present review have certain
advantages and disadvantages. Based on this study, one can determine which
technique provides an optimum result.

DOI: 10.1080/08820538.2016.1229801 
PMID: 27929730  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


205. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 8:1-8. [Epub ahead of print]

Unclassified Axenfeld-Rieger Syndrome: A CASE SERIES and Review of Literature.

Rao A(1), Padhy D(2), Sarangi S(2), Das G(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Glaucoma Service , LV Prasad Eye Institute , Bhubaneswar , Odisha , India.
(2)b Glaucoma Diagnostics Service , LV Prasad Eye Institute , Bhubaneswar ,
Odisha , India.

PURPOSE: To report anterior segment features in unclassified anterior segment
dysgenesis with overlapping features of Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome and other
developmental anomalies.
METHODS: This retrospective study included those with atypical or overlapping
features in one or both eyes, which were identified as unclassified ASD. Typical 
ARS was defined as the presence of posterior embryotoxon with or without iris
changes like stromal hypoplasia, corectopia, polycoria, or ectropion uvea with or
without systemic features. Cases of ARS with overlapping features with other ASD,
like aniridia (complete or incomplete absence of iris), iridocorneal endothelial 
(ICE) syndrome (beaten metal appearance of corneal endothelium), Peters anomaly, 
isolated trabeculodysgenesis (evidenced by Haab's striae, buphthalmos, and
epiphora) in one or both eyes with other typical ARS features in the same or
other eye were included and screened.
RESULTS: Of 56 cases of ARS seen over 10 years, a total of 17 eyes of 11 cases
(M:F=9:2, unilateral n=3) with unclassified ASD were identified with a median age
of patients of 28.45±17.75 years (range 6-30 years). All cases of unclassified
ASD had the presence of focal atypical strands of non-progressive anterior
synechiae extending from the iris mid-periphery to the cornea with no attachments
to the Schwalbe's line in any case. Adjacent keratic precipitates or pigment were
present in three eyes with focal beaten metal appearance in one eye. Three
patients developed repeated episodes of anterior uveitis in one eye with stromal 
involvement seen in all cases, which responded to antiviral therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Atypical features like focal strands with differential corneal
involvement and onset of viral uveitis in unclassified ARS suggest a possible
viral etiology during different periods of eye development.

DOI: 10.1080/08820538.2016.1208767 
PMID: 27929720  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


206. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 8:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Unusual Surprises in Glaucoma Filtering Surgeries: Lessons Learned and Review of 
Literature.

Rao A(1), Padhy D(1), Roy AK(1), Senthil S(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Glaucoma Services , LV Prasad Eye Institute , Bhubaneswar , India. (2)b
Glaucoma Services , LV Prasad Eye Institute , Hyderabad , India.

PURPOSE: To describe an unusual series of complications after glaucoma filtering 
surgeries with their clinical findings and outcome after tailored
non-conventional modes of therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighteen patients who underwent re-interventions (medical
or surgical) after glaucoma filtering surgeries during the period at two tertiary
centers, excluding those that required conventional modes of treatment (medical
control or re-trabeculectomy, simple wound closure for traumatic wound
dehiscence, bleb revision or needling, laser iridotomy), were included. Relevant 
clinical details with intraoperative videos, intraoperative or postoperative
problems, and images with course after re-intervention were retrieved from the
hospital database. Clinical details which helped in clinching diagnosis and cause
for problems and course after intervention with final vision and intraocular
pressure were evaluated.
RESULTS: Six of 18 eyes required surgical management for an unusual course of
events after an uneventful filtering surgery. Bleb morphology and close follow-up
of the conjunctiva, in addition to intraocular pressure (IOP) and anterior
chamber (AC) configuration, helped diagnose possible aetiology and appropriate
tailored management. All patients had good IOP and visual outcome in all except
one with macular scar status after retinal detachment surgery.
CONCLUSION: Assessment of the bleb morphology in the postoperative course coupled
with monitoring of the conjunctival wound are essential to conventional
monitoring of IOP and anterior chamber configuration to arrive at appropriate
management for rare unusual events after glaucoma surgery.

DOI: 10.1080/08820538.2016.1208766 
PMID: 27929714  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


207. Cell Death Dis. 2016 Dec 8;7(12):e2514. doi: 10.1038/cddis.2016.397.

Non-amyloidogenic effects of α2 adrenergic agonists: implications for
brimonidine-mediated neuroprotection.

Nizari S(1), Guo L(1), Davis BM(1), Normando EM(1,)(2), Galvao J(1), Turner
LA(1), Bizrah M(1), Dehabadi M(1), Tian K(1), Francesca Cordeiro M(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma and Retinal Neurodegeneration Group, Department of Visual
Neuroscience, UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London EC1V 9EL, UK. (2)The Western
Eye Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare Trust, London NW1 5QH, UK.

The amyloid beta (Aβ) pathway is strongly implicated in neurodegenerative
conditions such as Alzheimer's disease and more recently, glaucoma. Here, we
identify the α2 adrenergic receptor agonists (α2ARA) used to lower intraocular
pressure can prevent retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death via the non-amyloidogenic 
Aβ-pathway. Neuroprotective effects were confirmed in vivo and in vitro in
different glaucoma-related models using α2ARAs brimonidine (BMD), clonidine (Clo)
and dexmedetomidine. α2ARA treatment significantly reduced RGC apoptosis in
experimental-glaucoma models by 97.7% and 92.8% (BMD, P<0.01) and 98% and 92.3%
(Clo, P<0.01)) at 3 and 8 weeks, respectively. A reduction was seen in an
experimental Aβ-induced neurotoxicity model (67% BMD and 88.6% Clo, both P<0.01, 
respectively), and in vitro, where α2ARAs significantly (P<0.05) prevented cell
death, under both hypoxic (CoCl2) and stress (UV) conditions. In
experimental-glaucoma, BMD induced ninefold and 25-fold and 36-fold and fourfold 
reductions in Aβ and amyloid precursor protein (APP) levels at 3 and 8 weeks,
respectively, in the RGC layer, with similar results with Clo, and in vitro with 
all three α2ARAs. BMD significantly increased soluble APPα (sAPPα) levels at 3
and 8 weeks (2.1 and 1.6-fold) in vivo and in vitro with the CoCl2 and UV-light
insults. Furthermore, treatment of UV-insulted cells with an sAPPα antibody
significantly reduced cell viability compared with BMD-treated control (52%),
co-treatment (33%) and untreated control (27%). Finally, we show that α2ARAs
modulate levels of laminin and MMP-9 in RGCs, potentially linked to changes in Aβ
through APP processing. Together, these results provide new evidence that α2ARAs 
are neuroprotective through their effects on the Aβ pathway and sAPPα, which to
our knowledge, is the first description. Studies have identified the need for
α-secretase activators and sAPPα-mimetics in neurodegeneration; α2ARAs, already
clinically available, present a promising therapy, with applications not only to 
reducing RGC death in glaucoma but also other neurodegenerative processes
involving Aβ.

DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2016.397 
PMID: 27929541  [PubMed - in process]


208. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 8. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12888. [Epub ahead of print]

Minimally invasive glaucoma surgery as primary stand-alone surgery for glaucoma.

Kerr NM(1), Wang J(1), Barton K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, United Kingdom.

Recently many new devices and procedures have been developed to lower intraocular
pressure in a less invasive and purportedly safer manner than traditional
glaucoma surgery. These new devices might encourage an earlier transition to
surgery and reduce the long term commitment to topical glaucoma medications with 
their associated compliance and intolerance issues. While often seen as an
adjunct to cataract surgery, a growing body of evidence suggests that primary
MIGS may be a viable initial treatment option. New studies have shown that
primary ab interno trabeculectomy (Trabectome, NeoMedix Inc., Tustin, CA, USA),
trabecular micro-bypass stent insertion (iStent and iStent Inject, Glaukos
Corporation, Laguna Hills, CA, USA), canalicular scaffolding (Hydrus, Invantis
Inc., Irvine CA, USA), the ab interno gel Implant (XEN, Allergan, Dublin,
Ireland) or supraciliary stenting (CyPass Micro-Stent, Alcon, Fort Worth, TX,
USA) may lower the IOP and/or topical medication burden in phakic or pseudophakic
patients with glaucoma. This effect seems to last at least 12 months but reliable
cost-effectiveness and quality of life indicators have not yet been established
by investigator-initiated randomised trials of sufficient size and duration.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12888 
PMID: 27928879  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


209. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 8. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12889. [Epub ahead of print]

Functional visual acuity measurement in glaucoma.

Sato H(1), Kunikata H(1,)(2), Ouchi J(1), Nakazawa T(1,)(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Japan. (2)Department of Retinal Disease Control, Tohoku University
Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. (3)Department of Ophthalmic Imaging
and Information Analytics, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai,
Japan. (4)Department of Advanced Ophthalmic Medicine, Tohoku University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.12889 
PMID: 27928872  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


210. Metab Brain Dis. 2016 Dec 7. [Epub ahead of print]

Palmitic acid triggers cell apoptosis in RGC-5 retinal ganglion cells through the
Akt/FoxO1 signaling pathway.

Yan P(1), Tang S(2), Zhang H(3), Guo Y(4), Zeng Z(5), Wen Q(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, 450001, People's Republic of China. (2)Department
of Pharmacy, First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan,
450001, People's Republic of China. (3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, School of Basic Medicine, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan,
450001, People's Republic of China. (4)Shenzhen Mental Health Center and Shenzhen
Key Lab for Psychological Healthcare, Shenzhen, 518020, People's Republic of
China. (5)Shenzhen Mental Health Center and Shenzhen Key Lab for Psychological
Healthcare, Shenzhen, 518020, People's Republic of China. zengzw1122@163.com.
(6)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Basic Medicine, Zhengzhou
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, 450001, People's Republic of China.
qiangwen7619@163.com.

Hallmarks of the pathophysiology of glaucoma are oxidative stress and apoptotic
death of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Lipotoxicity, involving a series of
pathological cellular responses after exposure to elevated levels of fatty acids,
leads to oxidative stress and cell death in various cell types. The
phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/protein kinase B/Forkhead box O1 (PI3K/Akt/FoxO1)
pathway is crucial for cell survival and apoptosis. More importantly, FoxO1 gene 
has been reported to confer relatively higher risks for eye diseases including
glaucoma. However, little information is available regarding the interaction
between FoxO1 and RGC apoptosis, much less a precise mechanism. In the present
study, immortalized rat retinal ganglion cell line 5 (RGC-5) was used as a model 
to study the toxicity of palmitic acid (PA), as well as underlying mechanisms. We
found that PA exposure significantly decreased cell viability by enhancing
apoptosis in RGC-5 cells, as measured by
3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and flow
cytometry. PA also induced a remarkable increase in reactive oxygen species and
malondialdehyde. Moreover, PA significantly decreased the level of phospho-Akt
and phospho-FoxO1 in cells. Finally, shRNA knockdown and plasmid overexpression
studies displayed that downregulation of Akt protein or upregulation of FoxO1
protein augmented cell death, while knockdown of FoxO1 or overexpression of Akt1 
abolished PA-induced cell death. Collectively, our results indicated that
PA-induced cell death is mediated through modulation of Akt/FoxO1 pathway
activity.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-016-9935-6 
PMID: 27928692  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


211. Neuroophthalmology. 2016 Oct 5;40(6):292-296. eCollection 2016.

Asymmetrical Intraocular Pressures and Asymmetrical Papilloedema in Pseudotumor
Cerebri Syndrome.

Lawlor M(1), Zhang MG(2), Virgo J(3), Plant GT(4).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia; Sydney Eye Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (2)The Prince
of Wales Hospital , Randwick, New South Wales, Australia. (3)Moorfields Eye
Hospital , City Road, London, United Kingdom. (4)Moorfields Eye Hospital, City
Road, London, United Kingdom; The National Hospital for Neurology and
Neurosurgery, London, United Kingdom; St Thomas' Hospital, London, United
Kingdom.

This report is of two cases of asymmetrical papilloedema in patients with
asymmetrical intraocular pressures (IOPs). The first patient presented with
headaches, transient visual obscurations (TVOs), and elevated IOPs, and was found
to have increased intracranial pressure caused by a torcula meningioma. He
developed papilloedema after his IOPs were pharmacologically lowered; the
papilloedema resolved after the IOP became elevated again after stopping his
glaucoma drops, and then again returned as the IOP reduced when the drops were
restarted. The second patient with a history of Sturge-Weber syndrome requiring
previous left trabeculectomy, presented with left-sided TVOs, photopsia, and
pulsatile tinnitus caused by idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Asymmetrical
papilloedema was observed, worse in the eye with the lower IOP following
trabeculectomy. These cases suggest that asymmetric IOP may be one factor that
can influence the development of asymmetric papilloedema. Ophthalmologists
finding disc swelling at low normal pressures should ask about symptoms of raised
ICP, and neuro-ophthalmologists confronted with asymmetrical disc swelling should
routinely measure IOP.

DOI: 10.1080/01658107.2016.1226344 
PMCID: PMC5120743 [Available on 2017-10-05]
PMID: 27928421  [PubMed - in process]


212. Neuroophthalmology. 2016 Jun 24;40(4):157-164. eCollection 2016.

Idiopathic Acquired Temporal Wedge Visual Field Defects.

Gilhooley MJ(1), Fraser CL(2), Wong S(1), Hickman SJ(3), Plant GT(4).

Author information: 
(1)Moorfields Eye Hospital , London, United Kingdom. (2)Save Sight Institute,
University of Sydney , Sydney, Australia. (3)Royal Hallamshire Hospital ,
Sheffield, United Kingdom. (4)Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, United Kingdom;
The National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, United Kingdom.

Our aim is to report 13 unusual cases of acquired, temporal sectoral scotomas.
Such stationary "wedge" field defects have been reported previously in cases of
presumed congenital nasal hypoplasia of the optic disc and as a complication of
vitreoretinal surgery. To our knowledge, the literature provides no reports of
similar defects occurring spontaneously. This is a descriptive clinical case
series of 13 patients presenting with sub-acute monocular temporal visual field
loss. All were clinically assessed and investigated with Goldmann perimetry,
automated Humphrey visual fields, retinal optical coherence tomography, orbital
ultrasound, and standard and multi-focal electroretinography. Cases were followed
with serial perimetry for a mean of 3.9 years (range: 6 months to 10 years).
Goldmann and Humphrey perimetry both demonstrated "wedge"-shaped defects
extending temporally from an apex contiguous with, or lateral to, the blind spot.
There was no evidence of optic disc drusen, glaucoma, disc hypoplasia, or focal
retinitis. Sectoral optic disc swelling was not present in any patient at
presentation. In all cases, the visual field defect remained stable. One patient 
developed a similar defect in the fellow eye after an interval of 5 years. Here
we describe 13 cases of acquired, stationary temporal wedge scotomas, novel in
the literature. Although the aetiology is uncertain, we propose damage to the
nasal rim of the optic disc as a likely mechanism.

DOI: 10.1080/01658107.2016.1195413 
PMCID: PMC5122908 [Available on 2017-06-24]
PMID: 27928401  [PubMed - in process]


213. Neuroophthalmology. 2016 Apr 29;40(3):139-145. eCollection 2016.

Spectrum and Clinical Course of Visual Field Abnormalities in Ethambutol
Toxicity.

Mendel T(1), Fleischman D(2), Allingham RR(3), Tseng H(3), Chesnutt DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Virginia , Charlottesville, Virginia,
USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of North Carolina , Chapel Hill, 
North Carolina, USA. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University , Durham,
North Carolina, USA.

Visual toxicities from ethambutol are rare but represent one of the few causes of
non-glaucomatous and non-compressive bitemporal hemianopsia. The authors present 
a six-patient case series illustrating variable clinical presentation and
reversibility of visual loss in patients treated with ethambutol for
Mycobacterium avium complex, including four patients who presented with visual
field defects suggestive of bitemporal hemianopsia. Two additional patients were 
being followed for glaucoma, developed visual field defects with ethambutol
treatment, and subsequently recovered with cessation of drug. In patients being
treated with ethambutol, reversible bitemporal hemianopsia was the most commonly 
noted presentation of ethambutol toxicity.

DOI: 10.3109/01658107.2016.1173065 
PMCID: PMC5123087 [Available on 2017-04-29]
PMID: 27928399  [PubMed - in process]


214. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 7. pii: bjophthalmol-2016-308720. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-308720. [Epub ahead of print]

Temporal ocular coherence tomography-measured changes in anterior chamber angle
and diurnal intraocular pressure after laser iridoplasty: IMPACT study.

Bourne RR(1,)(2), Zhekov I(1,)(2), Pardhan S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vision & Eye Research Unit, Postgraduate Medical Institute, Anglia Ruskin
University, Cambridge, UK. (2)Hinchingbrooke Hospital NHS Trust, Huntingdon,
Cambridgeshire, UK.

AIMS: To evaluate temporal change in anterior chamber angle anatomy following
argon laser peripheral iridoplasty (ALPI) in eyes with occludable angles
postlaser peripheral iridotomy (LPI) compared with control eyes. Additionally,
the effect on diurnal intraocular pressure (DIOP) fluctuation (maximum-minimum
IOP) was investigated.
METHODS: Twenty-two patients with bilateral primary angle closure/suspects with
gonioscopically occludable anterior chamber angles following LPI were randomised 
to receive ALPI (n=11) or no further treatment (n=11). Angle opening distance
(AOD), trabecular-iris angle, angle recess area and trabecular-iris space area
were measured over eight sections with swept-source anterior segment optical
coherence tomography and DIOP was measured pre-LPI and repeated at 3 months after
ALPI (hourly measures).
RESULTS: All angle parameters increased following ALPI. This change was
maintained for 3 months in seven of the eight sections (eg, inferotemporal AOD500
increased by 0.063 mm, p=0.004 at 1 day; 0.051 mm, p=0.029 at 1 week; 0.059 mm,
p=0.006 at 6 weeks and 0.056 mm, p=0.011 at 3 months). The only exception was in 
the inferior sector (eg, AOD500 increased by 0.041 mm, p=0.025 at 1 day and by
0.029 mm, p=0.054 at 3 months). DIOP at 3 months was significantly reduced
(5.04 mm Hg; ±1.61 mm Hg) compared with controls (6.61 mm Hg; ±1.63 mm Hg).
Maximum IOP was significantly greater in the non-ALPI group (1.87 mm Hg,
p=0.026).
CONCLUSIONS: ALPI widened all angle sections in eyes that remained occludable
post-LPI. Changes were maintained for 3 months. ALPI decreased DIOP fluctuation
in the treated eyes by lowering the maximum IOP value.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-308720 
PMID: 27927679  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


215. BMC Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 7;16(1):214.

Colour Doppler analysis of ophthalmic vessels in the diagnosis of carotic artery 
and retinal vein occlusion, diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma: systematic review 
of test accuracy studies.

Bittner M(1), Faes L(2), Boehni SC(1), Bachmann LM(3), Schlingemann RO(4), Schmid
MK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Eye Clinic, Cantonal Hospital of Lucerne, Spitalstrasse, CH-6001, Lucerne,
Switzerland. (2)medignition Inc, Verena Conzett-Strasse 9, CH-8004, Zurich,
Switzerland. (3)medignition Inc, Verena Conzett-Strasse 9, CH-8004, Zurich,
Switzerland. bachmann@medignition.ch. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Academic
Medical Center, PO Box 22660, 1100 DD, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Colour Doppler analysis of ophthalmic vessels has been proposed as a 
promising tool in the diagnosis of various eye diseases, but the available
diagnostic evidence has not yet been assessed systematically. We performed a
comprehensive systematic review of the literature on the diagnostic properties of
Colour Doppler imaging (CDI) assessing ophthalmic vessels and provide an
inventory of the available evidence.
METHODS: Eligible papers were searched electronically in (Pre) Medline, Embase
and Scopus, and via cross-checking of reference lists. The minimum requirement to
be included was the availability of original data and the possibility to
construct a two-by-two table. Study selection, critical appraisal using the
QUADAS II instrument and extraction of salient study characteristics was made in 
duplicate. Sensitivity and specificity was computed for each study.
RESULTS: We included 11 studies (15 two-by-two tables) of moderate methodological
quality enrolling 820 participants (range 30 to 118). In 44.4% participants were 
female (range 37-59% in specific subgroups). CDI was assessed for internal
carotid stenosis, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, and branch or central retinal
vein occlusion diagnosis. There was insufficient data to pool the results for
specific illnesses. For the assessments of ophthalmic arteries, mean sensitivity 
was 0.69 (range 0.27-0.96) with a corresponding mean specificity of 0.83 (range
0.70-0.96). Mean sensitivity of the central retinal artery assessments was 0.58
(range 0.31-0.84) and the corresponding mean specificity was 0.82 (range
0.63-0.94).
CONCLUSIONS: Robust assessments of the diagnostic value of colour Doppler
analysis remain uncommon, limiting the possibilities to extrapolate its true
potential for clinical practice. PROSPERO 2014:CRD42014014027.

DOI: 10.1186/s12886-016-0384-0 
PMCID: PMC5142387
PMID: 27927176  [PubMed - in process]


216. Oncotarget. 2016 Dec 1. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.13745. [Epub ahead of print]

The association between serum uric acid and glaucoma severity in primary angle
closure glaucoma: a retrospective case-control study.

Li S(1), Shao M(1), Tang B(1), Zhang A(1), Cao W(1,)(2), Sun X(2,)(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Eye and ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Science, Eye and ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, Institute of Brain Science and
Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China. (4)Key Laboratory of Myopia, Ministry of Health (Fudan University).
(5)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Visual Impairment and Restoration (Fudan
University).

Uric acid (UA) is a major antioxidant molecule and has been hypothesized to have 
a protective effect on the central nervous system against oxidative damage. We
prospectively investigated the serum concentration of UA in primary angle closure
glaucoma (PACG), and explored the association between serum concentration of UA
and the severity of PACG. Using a retrospective case-control study design, 886
PACG subjects and 994 control subjects who attended the Eye & ENT Hospital of
Fudan University, were eligible for this study. Glaucoma severity was classified 
as mild (MD ≤ 6.00 dB), moderate (12 dB ≥ MD > 6 dB) and severe (MD > 12 dB)
based on the MD (mean deviation). The levels of UA were significantly lower (p = 
0.025) in PACG (0.286 ± 0.082 mmol/l) compared with control (0.295 ± 0.085
mmol/l). The mean serum UA levels were lowest in the severe group (0.281 ± 0.074 
mmol/l) followed by moderate (0.282 ± 0.080 mmol/l) and mild (0.297 ± 0.090
mmol/l) with significant differences among the three groups (p = 0.032). In
multivariate regression analysis, there was a significant negative correlation
between UA level and vertical cup-disc ratio (B = -0.165, p = 0.035).
Significantly lower serum UA concentration in PACG and its negative association
with disease severity presented it as an important candidate in reaction to
oxidative stress in glaucoma pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.13745 
PMID: 27926530  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


217. Glob Health Action. 2016 Dec 6;9:31886. doi: 10.3402/gha.v9.31886. eCollection
2016.

So let me find my way, whatever it will cost me, rather than leaving myself in
darkness: experiences of glaucoma in Nigeria.

Kyari F(1,)(2), Chandler CI(3), Martin M(4), Gilbert CE(1).

Author information: 
(1)International Centre for Eye Health, Department of Clinical Research, London
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, College of Health Sciences, University of Abuja, Abuja, Nigeria;
Fatima.Kyari@Lshtm.ac.uk. (3)Department of Global Health and Development, Faculty
of Public Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine,
London, United Kingdom. (4)Initiative for Community and Rural Eye Care, Kaduna,
Nigeria.

BACKGROUND: Blindness from glaucoma is associated with socio-economic
deprivation, presumed to reflect poor access to care and poor adherence to
treatment.
OBJECTIVES: To determine why people with glaucoma are presenting late for
treatment and to understand access to glaucoma care. Additionally, we sought to
identify what patients and the community know, do and think about the condition
and why the poor are the most affected with glaucoma blindness.
DESIGN: Study participants were from four communities and two hospitals in
Abuja-FCT and Kaduna State, Nigeria. A total of 120 participants were involved,
including 8 focus group discussions, 7 in-depth interviews with blind/visually
impaired glaucoma patients, 5 rapid direct observation visits with these patients
and 13 exit interviews of glaucoma patients in the hospital. The data were
analysed using content analysis, interpreting participant experiences in terms of
three key steps conceptualised as important in the care pathway: what it takes to
know glaucoma, to reach a diagnosis and to access continued care.
RESULTS: This article presents multiple narratives of accessing and maintaining
glaucoma care and how people manage and cope with the disease. People may be
presenting late due to structural barriers, which include lack of knowledge and
awareness about glaucoma and not finding an appropriately equipped health care
facility. What keeps glaucoma patients within the care pathway are a good
hospital experience; a support structure involving family, counselling and shared
patients' experiences; and an informed choice of treatment, as well as agency.
The high cost of purchasing care is a major factor for patients dropping out of
treatment.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest the need to address economic and social
structural drivers as glaucoma presents another case study to demonstrate that
poverty is a strong driver for blindness. There is also a need for clear glaucoma
care pathways with early case finding in the community, two-way referral/feedback
systems, well-equipped glaucoma care hospitals and better eye health care
financing.


PMCID: PMC5141371
PMID: 27924740  [PubMed - in process]


218. Biomark Med. 2016 Dec;10(12):1218-1223. Epub 2016 Dec 7.

Low-level expression of SOD1 in peripheral blood samples of patients diagnosed
with primary open-angle glaucoma.

Canizales L(1), Rodriguez L(2), Rivera C(3), Martinez A(4), Mendez F(5), Castillo
A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, Universidad ICESI, Calle
18 No. 122-135, Cali - Colombia. (2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Natural &
Exact Sciences, Universidad del Valle, Calle 13 No. 100-00, Cali - Colombia.
(3)Centro Medico Farallones, Fundacion Oftalmologica del Valle, Calle 9 c 50-25
cons 400, Cali - Colombia. (4)Ophthalmology Residency Program, Universidad del
Valle & Centro Medico Imbanaco, Carrera 38 A No. 5A 100, Cali - Colombia.
(5)School of Public Health, GESP Group, Universidad del Valle, Calle 4B No.
36A-140, Cali - Colombia.

AIM: Glaucoma is a multifactorial disease of retinal ganglion cells, with low
prognosis. For that reason, the identification of biomarkers in peripheral blood 
samples for diagnostics and treatment of the disease is needed. To establish mRNA
expression level of several oxidative stress biomarkers reported in aqueous humor
of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
MATERIALS & METHODS: The mRNA expression levels of eight genes from 15 patients
diagnosed with POAG and 11 control subjects were analyzed using an RT(2) Custom
Profiler PCR Array.
RESULTS: mRNA expression level of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) showed a
significant downregulation in patients diagnosed with POAG in respect to control 
subjects. The low expression of SOD1 found in blood is consistent with the
reported proteomic levels in aqueous humor.
CONCLUSION: SOD1 may be a useful biomarker in the peripheral blood of patients
diagnosed with POAG.

DOI: 10.2217/bmm-2016-0167 
PMID: 27924632  [PubMed - in process]


219. Sci Data. 2016 Dec 6;3:160112. doi: 10.1038/sdata.2016.112.

Dataset of eye disease-related proteins analyzed using the unfolding mutation
screen.

McCafferty CL(1), Sergeev YV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmic Genetics and Visual Function Branch, National Eye Institute, NIH,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

A number of genetic diseases are a result of missense mutations in protein
structure. These mutations can lead to severe protein destabilization and
misfolding. The unfolding mutation screen (UMS) is a computational method that
calculates unfolding propensities for every possible missense mutation in a
protein structure. The UMS validation demonstrated a good agreement with
experimental and phenotypical data. 15 protein structures (a combination of
homology models and crystal structures) were analyzed using UMS. The standard and
clustered heat maps, and patterned protein structure from the analysis were
stored in a UMS library. The library is currently composed of 15 protein
structures from 14 inherited eye diseases including retina degenerations,
glaucoma, and cataracts, and contains data for 181,110 mutations. The UMS protein
library introduces 13 new human models of eye disease related proteins and is the
first collection of the consistently calculated unfolding propensities, which
could be used as a tool for the express analysis of novel mutations in clinical
practice, next generation sequencing, and genotype-to-phenotype relationships in 
inherited eye disease.

DOI: 10.1038/sdata.2016.112 
PMCID: PMC5139671
PMID: 27922631  [PubMed - in process]


220. Sci Rep. 2016 Dec 6;6:38298. doi: 10.1038/srep38298.

First insight into the proteome landscape of the porcine short posterior ciliary 
arteries: Key signalling pathways maintaining physiologic functions.

Manicam C(1), Perumal N(1), Pfeiffer N(1), Grus FH(1), Gericke A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Medical Centre of the Johannes
Gutenberg University Mainz, Mainz, Germany.

Short posterior ciliary arteries (sPCA) provide the major blood supply to the
optic nerve head. Emerging evidence has linked structural and functional
anomalies of sPCA to the pathogenesis of several ocular disorders that cause
varying degrees of visual loss, particularly anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy 
and glaucoma. Although the functional relevance of this vascular bed is
well-recognized, the proteome of sPCA remains uncharacterized. Since the porcine 
ocular system closely resembles that of the human's and is increasingly employed 
in translational ophthalmic research, this study characterized the proteome of
porcine sPCA employing the mass spectrometry-based proteomics strategy. A total
of 1742 proteins and 10527 peptides were identified in the porcine sPCA. The
major biological processes involved in the maintenance of physiological functions
of the sPCA included redox and metabolic processes, and cytoskeleton
organization. These proteins were further clustered into diverse signalling
pathways that regulate vasoactivity of sPCA, namely the tight junction, α- and
β-adrenoceptor, 14-3-3, nitric oxide synthase and endothelin-1 -mediated
signalling pathways. This study provides the first insight into the complex
mechanisms dictating the vast protein repertoire in normal vascular physiology of
the porcine sPCA. It is envisioned that our findings will serve as important
benchmarks for future studies of sPCA.

DOI: 10.1038/srep38298 
PMCID: PMC5138843
PMID: 27922054  [PubMed - in process]


221. Ophthalmologe. 2016 Dec 5. [Epub ahead of print]

[Evaluation of correction formulas for tonometry : The Goldmann applanation
tonometry in approximation to dynamic contour tonometry].

[Article in German]

Wachtl J(1,)(2), Töteberg-Harms M(1), Frimmel S(1), Kniestedt C(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik, UniversitätsSpital Zürich, Frauenklinikstr. 24, 8091, Zürich,
Schweiz. (2)Talacker Augen Zentrum Zürich, TAZZ, Pelikanstr. 18, 8001, Zürich,
Schweiz. (3)Augenklinik, UniversitätsSpital Zürich, Frauenklinikstr. 24, 8091,
Zürich, Schweiz. kniestedt@tazz.ch. (4)Talacker Augen Zentrum Zürich, TAZZ,
Pelikanstr. 18, 8001, Zürich, Schweiz. kniestedt@tazz.ch.

BACKGROUND: Accurate determination of intraocular pressure (IOP) is essential for
correct management of glaucoma. Goldmann applanation tonometry (GAT) is the gold 
standard for measuring IOP despite its limitations due to its dependence on
corneal properties. With the aim of improving the accuracy of GAT readings,
several correction formulas have been developed.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the accuracy and clinical
relevance of five correction equations for GAT.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Prospective study of 112 glaucoma patients at the
University Hospital and Talacker Eye Center, Zurich, Switzerland. The IOP was
measured with GAT and dynamic contour tonometry (DCT) in randomized order. The
GAT readings were adjusted with five correction equations. The primary study
endpoint was the degree of concordance between corrected GAT and DCT readings.
A discordance of ≥2 mm Hg was defined as significant. The association between
discordant IOP measurements and central corneal thickness (CCT) was the secondary
study endpoint.
RESULTS: The mean patient age was 66 ± 13 years (60% females and 56% left eyes). 
The mean IOP was 17.0 mm Hg for GAT and 20.3 mm Hg for DCT, with a discordance of
3.3 mm Hg between GAT und DCT. The discordances between DCT and the corrected
values ranged from 2.7 to 5.4 mm Hg. Spearman's rank testing showed a positive
correlation between CCT and the discordances of all correction equations and
a negative correlation between CCT and the discordance of DCT and GAT.
CONCLUSION: The use of GAT correction formulas involves the risk of creating
significant error. The correction equations examined showed extensive scatter and
resulted in mean IOP values that were lower than the IOP initially measured by
GAT. Thus the use of any correction equation may delay diagnosis of glaucoma and 
should be avoided.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-016-0409-3 
PMID: 27921133  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


222. Ophthalmologe. 2016 Dec 5. [Epub ahead of print]

[Differential diagnosis of juvenile normal pressure glaucoma].

[Article in German]

Geidel K(1), Wiedemann P(2), Unterlauft JD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Augenheilkunde, Universitätsklinikum Leipzig AöR,
Liebigstr. 10-14, 04103, Leipzig, Deutschland.
Katharina.Geidel@medizin.uni-leipzig.de. (2)Klinik und Poliklinik für
Augenheilkunde, Universitätsklinikum Leipzig AöR, Liebigstr. 10-14, 04103,
Leipzig, Deutschland.

The case of a 50-year-old female patient with autosomal dominant optic atrophy is
described, which was initially misinterpreted and treated as normal pressure
glaucoma. Bilateral partial optic atrophy can be diagnosed by chance with mild
manifestation of symptoms and can initially be misinterpreted as glaucoma. Taking
a detailed medical history and performing a thorough optic nerve head examination
can raise the suspicion of hereditary optic atrophy. The reliable detection of
autosomal dominant optic atrophy by genetic investigations should be strived for 
in such cases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-016-0407-5 
PMID: 27921132  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


223. Case Rep Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 1;7(3):227-232.

Bilateral Ocular Decompression Retinopathy after Ahmed Valve Implantation for
Uveitic Glaucoma.

Flores-Preciado J(1), Ancona-Lezama DA(1), Valdés-Lara CA(1), Díez-Cattini GF(1),
Coloma-González I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Luis Sánchez Bulnes, Asociación para Evitar la Ceguera en México,
I.A.P., Mexico City, Mexico.

CASE REPORT: We report the case of a 29-year-old man who underwent Ahmed valve
implantation in both eyes as treatment for uveitic glaucoma, subsequently
presenting with bilateral ocular decompression retinopathy in the postoperative
period.
DISCUSSION: Ocular decompression retinopathy is a rare complication of filtering 
surgery in patients with glaucoma; however, the course is benign in most cases,
with spontaneous resolution of bleedings and improvement of visual acuity.

DOI: 10.1159/000452268 
PMCID: PMC5121563
PMID: 27920718  [PubMed]


224. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 23;10:2329-2336. eCollection 2016.

A retrospective analysis of intraocular pressure changes after cataract surgery
with the use of prednisolone acetate 1% versus difluprednate 0.05.

Kusne Y(1), Kang P(1), Fintelmann RE(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Arizona College of Medicine-Phoenix. (2)University of Arizona
College of Medicine-Phoenix; Barnet Dulaney Perkins Eye Center, Phoenix, AZ, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare the effect of topical prednisolone acetate 1% (PA) used after
routine cataract surgery to the effect of difluprednate 0.05% (DFBA) used for the
same indication on intraocular pressure (IOP).
METHODS: An electronic query was created to gather information from all cataract 
surgeries between January 2010 and January 2015 within the electronic health
record database at Barnet Dulaney Perkins, a multicenter, multiphysician private 
practice in Phoenix, Arizona. Information collected included age, sex, diabetes
status, glaucoma history, medication regimen (use of PA or DFBA), and IOP before 
surgery, 5-10 days postoperatively (TP1) and 3-6 weeks postoperatively (TP2).
Postoperative IOP measurements were compared to baseline IOP measurement in each 
patient.
RESULTS: Regardless of steroid used, all patients in this study experienced an
increase in IOP within TP1 and returned to baseline IOP (±2.0 mmHg) by TP2.
Patients who received DFBA showed a statistically significant increase in IOP at 
TP1 compared to those on PA (P<0.001) with the mean IOP an average 0.60 mmHg
higher (95% CI =0.3, 0.9). The odds ratio of a clinically significantly increased
IOP at TP1 (defined as overall IOP ≥21 mmHg and an increase of ≥10 mmHg) in
DFBA-treated patients was 1.84 (95% CI =1.4, 2.6). In patients treated with PA,
3% reached a significantly increased IOP, compared to 4.4% of patients in the
DFBA group (P<0.05). Risk factors for increased IOP were identified, and include 
advanced age (>75) (P<0.005) and a history of glaucoma (P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: In postoperative cataract patients, use of DFBA increased the risk of
a clinically significant IOP increase.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S121849 
PMCID: PMC5125796
PMID: 27920493  [PubMed - in process]


225. Clin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 18;10:2303-2309. eCollection 2016.

Bleb related infections: clinical characteristics, risk factors, and outcomes in 
an Asian population.

Yap ZL(1), Chin YC(2), Ku JY(2), Chan TK(1), Teh G(1), Nongpiur ME(3), Aung T(1),
Perera SA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore; Singapore Eye Research Institute,
Singapore. (2)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore. (3)Singapore Eye Research
Institute, Singapore; Duke NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore. (4)Singapore
National Eye Centre, Singapore; Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore; Duke
NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore.

PURPOSE: Comparison of the demographic, ocular, systemic and microbiological
characteristics of eyes with bleb related infection (BRI) and bleb related
endophthalmitis (BRE).
METHODS: Retrospective chart review of patients with BRI from January 1996-July
2013. Identification done via the center's longstanding endophthalmitis audit,
BRI audit and laboratory database identifying all conjunctival swabs from blebs. 
Blebitis was defined as anterior segment inflammation with mucopurulent material 
in or around the bleb, with anterior chamber cells but no hypopyon. BRE was
defined by the presence of hypopyon or vitreous inflammation.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients with blebitis and 10 with BRE were identified. Mean
age of subjects (n=39) was 68.4 (±13.3) with a preponderance of men (74.4%) and
Chinese ethnicity (74.4%). BRE patients were 10.7 years older than blebitis
patients (P=0.026). 28 (71.8%) subjects had primary open angle glaucoma. The
presenting intraocular pressure (IOP) dropped in blebitis but almost doubled in
BRE (P=0.011) compared to average preinfective IOP. Two weeks after treatment,
IOPs in both groups returned to close to preinfective levels. Subjects with
blebitis more often had an avascular bleb (88.0%) while those with BRE trended
toward a moderately vascular bleb (50%). The distribution of causative
microorganisms between the groups was similar.
CONCLUSION: Our study indicates that risk factors are similar in both groups even
though the visual outcome and clinical course, in the form of IOP findings and
bleb vascularity, can diverge significantly. The decreased IOP in blebitis
subjects represents objective evidence of subclinical leaks or bleb sweating.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S118809 
PMCID: PMC5125794
PMID: 27920489  [PubMed - in process]


226. Hypertension. 2016 Dec 5. pii: HYPERTENSIONAHA.116.08068. [Epub ahead of print]

Antihypertensive Medication Postpones the Onset of Glaucoma: Evidence From a
Nationwide Study.

Horwitz A(1), Klemp M(2), Jeppesen J(2), Tsai JC(2), Torp-Pedersen C(2), Kolko
M(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Neuroscience and Pharmacology (A.H.), Center for
Healthy Aging (A.H., M.K.), Department of Economics (M.K.), and Department of
Drug Design and Pharmacology (M.K.), University of Copenhagen, Denmark;
Department of Economics and Population Studies and Training Center, Brown
University, Providence, RI (M.K.); Department of Cardiology, Copenhagen
University Hospital Glostrup, Denmark (J.J.); New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of
Mount Sinai (J.C.T.); Department of Health, Science and Technology, Aalborg
University Hospital, Denmark (C.T.-P.); and Department of Ophthalmology, Zealand 
University Hospital, Roskilde, Denmark (M.K). miriamk@sund.ku.dk
anna.horwitz@protonmail.com. (2)From the Department of Neuroscience and
Pharmacology (A.H.), Center for Healthy Aging (A.H., M.K.), Department of
Economics (M.K.), and Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology (M.K.),
University of Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Economics and Population Studies
and Training Center, Brown University, Providence, RI (M.K.); Department of
Cardiology, Copenhagen University Hospital Glostrup, Denmark (J.J.); New York Eye
and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai (J.C.T.); Department of Health, Science and
Technology, Aalborg University Hospital, Denmark (C.T.-P.); and Department of
Ophthalmology, Zealand University Hospital, Roskilde, Denmark (M.K).

The aim was to investigate the impact of antihypertensive medication on the onset
of glaucoma. Data from the complete Danish population between 40 and 95 years of 
age were used in the period from 1996 to 2012, covering >2.6 million individuals.
The National Danish Registry of Medicinal Products Statistics was used to
identify all claimed prescriptions for glaucoma medication and antihypertensive
drugs. We first investigated basic correlations in the data and found that
patients treated with antihypertensive medication, at any time during the study
period, had a significantly higher overall relative risk (RR) of glaucoma, even
when controlling for age and sex (with a RR of 1.31 and P<0.0001). Furthermore,
our data confirm the well-known positive association between age and glaucoma. To
investigate the causal effect of antihypertensive treatment on the onset of
treatment for glaucoma, we used a regression discontinuity study design. This
analysis provides our main finding, namely that prescription of antihypertensive 
medication leads to a significant reduction in the risk of developing glaucoma.
Therefore, although hypertension-as indicated by the use of antihypertensive
medication-is positively correlated with glaucoma, our study indicates that
antihypertensive medication itself may have a preventive effect on the
development of glaucoma.

© 2016 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.116.08068 
PMID: 27920127  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


227. Bioorg Med Chem. 2017 Jan 15;25(2):539-544. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2016.11.027. Epub 
2016 Nov 19.

Discovery of 4-sulfamoyl-phenyl-β-lactams as a new class of potent carbonic
anhydrase isoforms I, II, IV and VII inhibitors: The first example of
subnanomolar CA IV inhibitors.

Angapelly S(1), Ramya PV(1), Angeli A(2), Monti SM(3), Buonanno M(3), Alvala
M(4), Supuran CT(5), Arifuddin M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, National Institute of Pharmaceutical
Education and Research (NIPER), Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of
Chemicals & Fertilizers, Govt of India, Balanagar, Hyderabad 500037, India.
(2)Neurofarba Department, Section of Pharmaceutical and Nutriceutical Sciences,
Università degli Studi di Firenze, Via Ugo Schiff 6, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino,
Florence, Italy. (3)Istituto di Biostrutture e Bioimmagini-CNR, via Mezzocannone 
16, 80134 Napoli, Italy. (4)Molecular Modeling Facility, Department of Medicinal 
Chemistry, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER),
Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers, Govt. of
India, Balanagar, Hyderabad 500037, India. (5)Neurofarba Department, Section of
Pharmaceutical and Nutriceutical Sciences, Università degli Studi di Firenze, Via
Ugo Schiff 6, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino, Florence, Italy. Electronic address:
claudiu.supuran@unifi.it. (6)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, National
Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Department of
Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers, Govt of India, Balanagar,
Hyderabad 500037, India. Electronic address: arif@niperhyd.ac.in.

A series of benzenesulfonamides incorporating 1,3,4-trisubstituted-β-lactam
moieties was prepared from sulfanilamide Schiff bases and in situ obtained
ketenes, by using the Staudinger cycloaddition reaction. The new compounds were
assayed as inhibitors of four human isoforms of the metalloenzyme carbonic
anhydrase (hCA, EC 4.2.1.1) involved in various physiological/pathological
conditions, hCA I, II, IV and VII. Excellent inhibitory activity was observed
against all these isoforms, as follows: hCA I, involved in some eye diseases was 
inhibited with KIs in the range of 7.3-917nM; hCA II, an antiglaucoma drug
target, with KIs in the range of 0.76-163nM. hCA IV, an isoform involved in
several pathological conditions such as glaucoma, retinitis pigmentosa and edema 
was potently inhibited by the lactam-sulfonamides, with KIs in the range of
0.53-51.0nM, whereas hCA VII, a recently validated anti-neuropathic pain target
was the most inhibited isoform by these derivatives, with KIs in the range of
0.68-9.1nM. The structure-activity relationship for inhibiting these CAs with the
new lactam-sulfonamides is discussed in detail.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2016.11.027 
PMID: 27919611  [PubMed - in process]


228. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Dec 1;57(15):6539-6547. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-19838.

Optic Radiations Microstructural Changes in Glaucoma and Association With
Severity: A Study Using 3Tesla-Magnetic Resonance Diffusion Tensor Imaging.

Tellouck L(1), Durieux M(2), Coupé P(3), Cougnard-Grégoire A(4), Tellouck J(5),
Tourdias T(6), Munsch F(2), Garrigues A(5), Helmer C(4), Malet F(7), Dartigues
JF(4), Dousset V(6), Delcourt C(4), Schweitzer C(1).

Author information: 
(1)CHU de Bordeaux, Service d'Ophtalmologie, Bordeaux, France 2University of
Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France 3INSERM, U1219-Bordeaux Population Health Research
Center, Bordeaux, France. (2)CHU de Bordeaux, Service de Neuro-Imagerie,
Bordeaux, France. (3)Université de Bordeaux, LaBRI, UMR 5800, PICTURA, Talence,
France 6CNRS, LaBRI, UMR 5800, PICTURA, Talence, France. (4)University of
Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France 3INSERM, U1219-Bordeaux Population Health Research
Center, Bordeaux, France. (5)CHU de Bordeaux, Service d'Ophtalmologie, Bordeaux, 
France. (6)University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France 4CHU de Bordeaux, Service de 
Neuro-Imagerie, Bordeaux, France 7INSERM, U1215, Neurocentre Magendie, Bordeaux, 
France. (7)Centre d'Ophtalmologie Point Vision, Bordeaux, France.

Purpose: To compare microstructural changes along the optical radiations and
brain structure volumes between glaucoma and control subjects using in vivo
magnetic resonance imaging and to analyze their association with severity of the 
disease.
Methods: A total of 50 open-angle glaucoma subjects and 50 healthy age- and
sex-matched controls underwent detailed ophthalmologic examinations (including
visual field testing [VF], funduscopy, and spectral-domain optical coherence
tomography) as well as diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) using 3.0-Tesla magnetic
resonance imaging. Fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity, radial
diffusivity (RD), and axial diffusivity (AD) were quantified semiautomatically
along the optical radiations. DTI parameters and volumes of specific brain
structures were compared between cases and controls using conditional logistic
regression. Association between DTI metrics and the severity of the disease was
studied using linear mixed regression analyses.
Results: In glaucoma subjects, optic radiations FA was significantly lower (0.57 
vs. 0.59; P = 0.02) and RD was significantly higher (52.78 10-5 mm2/s vs. 49.74
10-5 mm2/s; P = 0.03) than in controls. Optic radiations FA was significantly
correlated with homolateral functional and structural damage of glaucoma (mean
deviation of VF [P = 0.03], retinal nerve fiber layer thickness [P = 0.03],
vertical cup to disc ratio [P = 0.0007]). Volume and DTI parameters of other
brain structures (including hippocampus) were not significantly different between
glaucoma patients and controls.
Conclusions: We evidenced microstructural modifications along visual pathways of 
glaucoma patients and these alterations were correlated with disease severity.
The association of glaucoma with other neurodegenerative alterations would need
further exploration and a prospective follow-up of our cohort of subjects.
(ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01621841).

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19838 
PMID: 27918827  [PubMed - in process]


229. Diabet Med. 2016 Dec 5. doi: 10.1111/dme.13296. [Epub ahead of print]

Visual complications in diabetes mellitus: beyond retinopathy.

Khan A(1), Petropoulos IN(1), Ponirakis G(1), Malik RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar, Doha, Qatar.

Diabetic retinopathy is the most common cause of vision loss in people with
diabetes mellitus; however, other causes of visual impairment/loss include other 
retinal and non-retinal visual problems, including glaucoma, age-related macular 
degeneration, non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy and cataracts.
Additionally, when a person with diabetes complains of visual disturbance despite
a visual acuity of 6/6, abnormalities in refraction, contrast sensitivity,
straylight and amplitude of accommodation should be considered. We review and
highlight these visual problems for physicians who manage people with diabetes to
ensure timely referral and treatment to limit visual disability, which can have a
significant impact on daily living, especially for those participating in sports 
and driving.

© 2016 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/dme.13296 
PMID: 27917530  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


230. Am J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 1. pii: S0002-9394(16)30583-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2016.11.011. [Epub ahead of print]

360-degree Trabeculotomy for Medically-refractory Glaucoma Following Cataract
Surgery and Juvenile Open Angle Glaucoma.

Lim ME(1), Dao JB(2), Freedman SF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Department of Ophthalmology, Durham, NC. (2)Eye Consultants of
Northern Virginia, Springfield, VA. (3)Duke University Department of
Ophthalmology, Durham, NC. Electronic address: freed003@mc.duke.edu.

PURPOSE: While angle surgeries show good success in primary congenital glaucoma, 
reported success in glaucoma following cataract surgery (GFCS) and juvenile open 
angle glaucoma (JOAG) is variable and with relatively short follow-up. We
evaluated longer-term outcomes of 360-trabeculotomy for medically-refractory GFCS
and JOAG.
DESIGN: Retrospective case series.
METHODS: First operated eyes of consecutive patients with medically-refractory
GFCS and JOAG in a single-surgeon pediatric glaucoma practice who underwent
illuminated microcatheter-assisted 360-trabeculotomy from 2/2008-6/2015 were
reviewed. Baseline characteristics, time to failure or last visit, surgical
details, final intraocular pressure (IOP), and complications were recorded.
Success required IOP≤22mmHg and 20% reduction without additional glaucoma surgery
or devastating complication.
RESULTS: Thirty-five eyes (35 patients) were included: 25 GFCS and 10 JOAG (mean 
age at surgery 5.6 vs. 16.7 years, respectively, p<0.001). Success for GFCS and
JOAG was 18/25 (72%) versus 6/10 (60%) eyes at mean f/u 31.9±26.1 versus
24.5±19.7 months, respectively. IOP was significantly reduced from baseline for
both GFCS and JOAG (31.5±7.5 vs. 19.2±7.7 mmHg, p<0.001; and 29.5±10.3 vs.
15.8±6.6, p<0.001, respectively). Fewer glaucoma medications were needed after
surgery (p=0.01) for GFCS but not JOAG. Complications (all but two spontaneously 
resolving) included: choroidal effusion (1), vitreous hemorrhage (3), Descemet
detachment (1) and persistent hyphema (2). Three-year Kaplan-Meier success for
GFCS vs. JOAG was 75.3% vs. 53.3%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Illuminated micro-catheter assisted 360-trabeculotomy is a useful,
low-risk, modestly successful initial surgical treatment for both medically
refractory GFCS and JOAG.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.11.011 
PMID: 27916715  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


231. Am J Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 1. pii: S0002-9394(16)30584-0. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2016.11.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of retinal vessel diameter between open-angle glaucoma patients with
initial parafoveal scotoma and peripheral nasal step.

Yoo E(1), Yoo C(1), Lee TE(2), Kim YY(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Chonbuk National University
Medical School and Hospital, Jeonju, Republic of Korea. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Electronic address: yongykim@mail.korea.ac.kr.

PURPOSE: To compare retinal vessel diameters (RVDs) between open-angle glaucoma
(OAG) patients with initial parafoveal scotoma (PFS) and those with initial
peripheral nasal step (PNS).
DESIGN: Retrospective, cross-sectional study METHODS: We enrolled 151 eyes of 151
patients with OAG (83 with normal-tension glaucoma [NTG] and 68 with primary
open-angle glaucoma [POAG]). The patients were categorized into the PFS and PNS
groups according to the location of the initial visual field (VF) defect.
Clinical characteristics and RVD indices-central retinal arteriolar equivalent
(CRAE) and central retinal venular equivalent (CRVE)-were compared between the
groups. Subgroup analyses were conducted in the NTG and POAG groups.
RESULTS: Forty-six patients had PFS and 105 had PNS. The CRAE of the PFS group
was significantly lower than that of the PNS group in all glaucoma patients (P = 
0.001). However, neither the mean deviation in VF nor that in the average retinal
nerve fiber layer thickness showed significant intergroup differences. In the NTG
subgroup analysis, the CRAE of the PFS group was significantly lower than that of
the PNS group (P = 0.013). Conversely, in the POAG subgroup analysis, the CRAE in
the PFS group did not differ significantly from that in the PNS group (P =
0.123).
CONCLUSIONS: Retinal arteriolar diameter was narrower in OAG patients with
initial PFS than in those with initial PNS, especially in the NTG group. This
suggests that the initial location of the VF defect may be associated with the
vascular mechanism in patients with glaucoma.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.11.012 
PMID: 27916714  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


232. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2016 Dec 1. pii: S1350-9462(16)30064-7. doi:
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.11.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Adaptive optics optical coherence tomography in glaucoma.

Dong ZM(1), Wollstein G(2), Wang B(3), Schuman JS(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC) Eye Center, Eye and Ear
Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Pittsburgh School of
Medicine, Ophthalmology and Visual Science Research Center, Pittsburgh, PA,
United States. Electronic address: dongzm@upmc.edu. (2)New York University (NYU) 
Langone Eye Center, NYU Langone Medical Center, Department of Ophthalmology, NYU 
School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States. Electronic address:
gadi.wollstein@nyumc.org. (3)University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC) Eye
Center, Eye and Ear Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Ophthalmology and Visual Science Research Center, 
Pittsburgh, PA, United States. Electronic address: wangb4@upmc.edu. (4)New York
University (NYU) Langone Eye Center, NYU Langone Medical Center, Department of
Ophthalmology, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States; Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering, New York University Tandon School of
Engineering, Brooklyn, NY, United States. Electronic address:
joel.schuman@nyu.edu.

Since the introduction of commercial optical coherence tomography (OCT) systems, 
the ophthalmic imaging modality has rapidly expanded and it has since changed the
paradigm of visualization of the retina and revolutionized the management and
diagnosis of neuro-retinal diseases, including glaucoma. OCT remains a dynamic
and evolving imaging modality, growing from time-domain OCT to the improved
spectral-domain OCT, adapting novel image analysis and processing methods, and
onto the newer swept-source OCT and the implementation of adaptive optics (AO)
into OCT. The incorporation of AO into ophthalmic imaging modalities has enhanced
OCT by improving image resolution and quality, particularly in the posterior
segment of the eye. Although OCT previously captured in-vivo cross-sectional
images with unparalleled high resolution in the axial direction, monochromatic
aberrations of the eye limit transverse or lateral resolution to about 15-20 μm
and reduce overall image quality. In pairing AO technology with OCT, it is now
possible to obtain diffraction-limited resolution images of the optic nerve head 
and retina in three-dimensions, increasing resolution down to a theoretical
3 μm(3). It is now possible to visualize discrete structures within the posterior
eye, such as photoreceptors, retinal nerve fiber layer bundles, the lamina
cribrosa, and other structures relevant to glaucoma. Despite its limitations and 
barriers to widespread commercialization, the expanding role of AO in OCT is
propelling this technology into clinical trials and onto becoming an invaluable
modality in the clinician's arsenal.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2016.11.001 
PMID: 27916682  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


233. Patient Educ Couns. 2016 Nov 22. pii: S0738-3991(16)30545-6. doi:
10.1016/j.pec.2016.11.018. [Epub ahead of print]

Glaucoma patient-provider communication about vision quality-of-life.

Sleath B(1), Sayner R(2), Vitko M(3), Carpenter DM(4), Blalock SJ(5), Muir KW(6),
Giangiacomo AL(7), Hartnett ME(8), Robin AL(9).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, UNC Eshelman School of
Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, CB# 7573, Chapel Hill, NC 
27599-7573, USA; Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research, University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, CB # 7590, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7590, USA.
Electronic address: betsy_sleath@unc.edu. (2)Division of Pharmaceutical Outcomes 
and Policy, UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, CB# 7573, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7573, USA. Electronic address:
sayner@unc.edu. (3)Division of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, UNC Eshelman
School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, CB# 7573, Chapel
Hill, NC 27599-7573, USA. Electronic address: mlvitko@email.unc.edu. (4)Division 
of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy,
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, CB# 7573, Chapel Hill, NC
27599-7573, USA. Electronic address: dmcarpenter@unc.edu. (5)Division of
Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, CB# 7573, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7573, USA.
Electronic address: s_blalock@unc.edu. (6)Department of Ophthalmology, School of 
Medicine, Duke University and Durham VA Medical Center, Health Services Research 
and Development, 2351 Erwin Rd #3802, Durham, NC 27705, USA. Electronic address: 
muir0009@mc.duke.edu. (7)Ophthalmology, Emory University School of Medicine,
1365B Clifton Rd, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. Electronic address: agianci@emory.edu. 
(8)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, John A. Moran Eye Center
University of Utah, 65 N Mario Capecchi, Salt Lake City, UT 84132, USA.
Electronic address: ME.Hartnett@hsc.utah.edu. (9)Ophthalmology and International 
Health, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 600 N Wolfe St, Baltimore, MD 21287,
USA; Department of Ophthalmology, University of Maryland, 419 West Redwood St.,
Suite 420, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA; Department of Ophthalmology, University of
Michigan, 1000 Wall St., Ann Arbor, MI 48105, USA. Electronic address:
arobin@glaucomaexpert.com.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to: (a) describe the extent to which
ophthalmologists and glaucoma patients discuss vision quality-of-life during
office visits, and (b) examine the association between patient and
ophthalmologist characteristics and provider-patient communication about vision
quality-of-life.
METHODS: Patients with glaucoma who were newly prescribed or on glaucoma
medications were recruited at six ophthalmology clinics. Patients' visits were
video-tape recorded and quality-of-life communication variables were coded.
Generalized estimating equations were used to analyze the data.
RESULTS: Two hundred and seventy-nine patients participated. Specific glaucoma
quality-of-life domains were discussed during only 13% of visits. Older patients 
were significantly more likely to discuss one or more vision quality-of-life
domains than younger patients. African American patients were significantly less 
likely to make statements about their vision quality-of-life and providers were
less likely to ask them one or more vision quality-of-life questions than
non-African American patients.
CONCLUSION: Eye care providers and patients infrequently discussed the patient's 
vision quality-of-life during glaucoma visits. African American patients were
less likely to communicate about vision quality-of-life than non-African American
patients.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Eye care providers should make sure to discuss vision
quality-of-life with glaucoma patients.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2016.11.018 
PMID: 27916461  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


234. BMB Rep. 2016 Dec 5. pii: 3717. [Epub ahead of print]

Role of cyclic AMP in the eye of glaucoma.

Shim MS, Kim KY, Ju WK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hamilton Glaucoma Center and Department of Ophthalmology, Shiley Eye
Institute, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.

Glaucoma is characterized by a slow and progressive degeneration of optic nerve, 
including retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons in the optic nerve head (ONH),
leading to visual impairment. Despite the high prevalence, the biological basis
of glaucoma pathogenesis still is not yet fully understood, and the factors
contributing to its progression are currently not well characterized. Intraocular
pressure (IOP) is the only modifiable risk factor, and reduction of IOP is the
standard treatment for glaucoma. However, lowering IOP itself is not always
effective for preserving visual function in patients with primary open-angle
glaucoma. The second messenger cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP)
regulates numerous biological processes in the central nervous system including
retina and optic nerve. Although recent studies revealed that cAMP generated by
adenylyl cyclases (ACs) is important in regulating aqueous humour dynamics in
ocular tissues such as ciliary body and trabecular meshwork as well as cell death
and growth in retina and optic nerve, the functional role and its significance of
the cAMP in the eye of glaucoma remain to be elucidated. In this review, we will 
discuss the functional role of cAMP in aqueous humour dynamics and IOP
regulation, and review the current medications, which are related to cAMP
signaling pathway, for glaucoma treatment. Also, we will further focus on cAMP
signaling in RGC growth and regeneration by soluble AC as well as ONH astrocytes 
by transmembrane ACs to understand its potential role in the pathogenesis of
glaucoma neurodegeneration.


PMID: 27916026  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


235. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 3. [Epub ahead of print]

High-intensity focused ultrasound treatment in patients with refractory glaucoma.

Giannaccare G(1), Vagge A(2), Gizzi C(3), Bagnis A(2), Sebastiani S(3), Del Noce 
C(2), Fresina M(3), Traverso CE(2), Campos EC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ophthalmology Unit, DIMES, University of Bologna, Via Pelagio Palagi 9, 40138,
Bologna, Italy. giuseppe.giannaccare@gmail.com. (2)Eye Clinic, University of
Genoa, Genoa, Italy. (3)Ophthalmology Unit, DIMES, University of Bologna, Via
Pelagio Palagi 9, 40138, Bologna, Italy.

PURPOSE: To assess the safety and efficacy of ultrasound coagulation of the
ciliary body in refractory glaucoma.
METHODS: This prospective multicenter interventional study was conducted in two
Italian university-affiliated glaucoma centers: St. Orsola-Malpighi Teaching
Hospital (Bologna, Italy) and University Eye Clinic of Genoa (Genoa, Italy). The 
main inclusion criterion was the diagnosis of glaucoma with a baseline
intraocular pressure (IOP) ≥ 21 mmHg while on maximum topical and systemic
medical hypotensive treatment. The EyeOP1 device (Eye Tech Care,
Rillieux-la-Pape, France), which was employed in the study, uses miniaturized
transducers to produce high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU). Treatment
consisted of the sequential activation of each transducer lasting 4 s (group 1), 
6 s (group 2) or 8 s (group 3). Hypotensive medications were interrupted after
surgery and then prescribed only if postoperative IOP was ≥ 21 mmHg during
follow-up visits. Patients were assessed before and 1, 7, 14, 30, 90 and 180 days
after the procedure. Primary outcomes were the mean IOP reduction in the overall 
population and in groups 1, 2 and 3, and the rates of complete success, qualified
success and failure.
RESULTS: Thirty eyes (16 open-angle, 10 angle-closure and 4 neovascular glaucoma)
of 30 patients were included. The mean preoperative IOP was 30.1 ± 10.5 mmHg.
Twenty-nine patients completed the entire study follow-up; one patient exited
from the study 3 months after HIFU and underwent trabeculectomy. At days 1 and
180, the mean IOP was significantly reduced (18.4 ± 7.2 and 20.2 ± 6.2 mmHg,
respectively; all p < 0.0001). Group 3 patients (8-s ultrasound exposure time)
showed a greater IOP reduction than the other two groups (-16.2 ± 8.3 for group 3
vs. -8.8 ± 6.6 for group 2 and -3.7 ± 6.5 for group 1; p = 0.02 and p < 0.001,
respectively). Qualified and complete success was achieved in 23.3 and 46.7% of
patients, respectively; treatment failure was recorded in 6.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: Ultrasonic coagulation of the ciliary body is a safe and effective
procedure for reducing IOP in refractory glaucoma. The increase in ultrasound
exposure time appears to improve the response rate and the global efficacy of the
procedure, with no detrimental effect on safety.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-016-3563-z 
PMID: 27915382  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


236. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Nov 30. pii: S0014-4835(16)30504-8. doi:
10.1016/j.exer.2016.11.021. [Epub ahead of print]

Transcriptome analysis of adult and fetal trabecular meshwork, cornea, and
ciliary body tissues by RNA sequencing.

Carnes MU(1), Allingham RR(2), Ashley-Koch A(3), Hauser MA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Epidemiology Branch, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences,
Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. Electronic address: megan.carnes@nih.gov.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC,
USA. (3)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; 
Center for Human Disease Modeling, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC,
USA. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, 
NC, USA; Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA;
Duke Molecular Physiology Institute, Durham, NC, USA.

PURPOSE: To characterize the transcriptional landscape of human adult and fetal
trabecular meshwork (TM), cornea, and ciliary body (CB) tissues, and to evaluate 
the expression level of candidate genes selected from genetic association studies
of primary-open angle glaucoma, central corneal thickness, intraocular pressure, 
vertical cup to disc ratio, and optic nerve parameters.
METHODS: Deep RNA sequencing was performed on the selected human tissues.
Transcriptome analyses were performed to 1) characterize the total number of
expressed genes, 2) identify the most highly expressed genes, 3) estimate the
number of novel transcripts, and 4) evaluate the expression of candidate genes in
each tissue. Finally, a differential gene expression analysis was conducted to
compare the adult and fetal ocular tissues.
RESULTS: There was an average of 12,362 protein coding genes and 3725 novel
transcripts expressed in each tissue. The top most expressed genes in each tissue
included SPARC (fetal cornea and TM), APOD (adult TM), CLU (adult cornea), and
PTGDS (adult and fetal CB). Twenty-nine candidate genes selected from genetic
association studies primarily showed high expression levels in the trabecular
meshwork and cornea. Comparison of adult and fetal samples identified 2012 and
1261 differentially expressed protein-coding genes within the cornea and
trabecular meshwork, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has provided an unbiased glimpse into the transcriptome
of three essential anterior ocular tissues, resulting in the development of
several novel hypotheses. These data can be used in the future to better guide
ocular research questions.

Copyright Â© 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.11.021 
PMID: 27914989  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


237. Am J Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 30. pii: S0002-9394(16)30570-0. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2016.11.010. [Epub ahead of print]

Estimating OCT Structural Measurement Floors to Improve Detection of Progression 
In Advanced Glaucoma.

Bowd C(1), Zangwill LM(1), Weinreb RN(1), Medeiros FA(1), Belghith A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hamilton Glaucoma Center, Department of Ophthalmology and Shiley Eye
Institute, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0946.
(2)Hamilton Glaucoma Center, Department of Ophthalmology and Shiley Eye
Institute, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0946.
Electronic address: abelghith@ucsd.edu.

PURPOSE: "Floor effects" in retinal imaging are defined as the points at which no
further structural loss can be detected. We estimated the measurement floors for 
spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) measurements and compared
global change over time in advanced glaucoma eyes.
DESIGN: Validity study to investigate measurement floors.
METHODS: A longitudinal "Variability Group" of 41 eyes with moderate to advanced 
glaucoma (SAP MD ≤ -8 dB) was used to estimate measurement floors. Minimum rim
width (MRW), ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer thickness (GC-IPLT) and
circumpapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (cpRNFLT) were determined.
Floors were defined as the average image area with a loss < 1(st) percentile
confidence interval of the variability in this group. Global rate of change and
percentage of the region of interest that did not reach the measurement floor at 
baseline were calculated in 87 eyes with advanced glaucoma (SAP MD ≤ -12 dB).
RESULTS: Global change over time in longitudinal eyes was -1.51 μm/year for MRW, 
-0.21 μm/year for GC-IPL and -0.36 μm/year cpRNFL (all p≤0.03). The percentage of
region of interest that did not reach the floor at baseline was 19% for MRW, 36% 
for GC-IPLT and 14% for cpRNFLT. Average (±S.D.) floors were 105 μm (±15.9 μm)
for MRW, 38 μm (±3.4 μm) for GC-IPLT and 38 μm (±4.2 μm) for cpRNFLT.
CONCLUSIONS: In advanced glaucoma, more GC-IPL tissue remains above the
measurement floor compared to other measurements, suggesting GC-IPL thickness is 
the better candidate for detecting progression. Progression in SD-OCT
measurements is observable in advanced disease.

Copyright Â© 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.11.010 
PMID: 27914978  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


238. Ophthalmology. 2016 Nov 18. pii: S0161-6420(16)31055-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.10.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Glaucoma and Congenital Zika Syndrome.

de Paula Freitas B(1), Ko AI(2), Khouri R(3), Mayoral M(4), Henriques DF(5), Maia
M(6), Belfort R Jr(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital Geral Roberto Santos, Salvador, Brazil; 
Vision Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Paulista Medical School, Federal
University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. (2)Gonçalo Moniz Research Center,
Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Salvador, Brazil; Department of Epidemiology of
Microbial Diseases, Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, Connecticut.
(3)Gonçalo Moniz Research Center, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Salvador, Brazil.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital Geral Roberto Santos, Salvador, Brazil. 
(5)Department of Arbovirology and Hemorrhagic Fevers, Evandro Chagas Institute,
Ministry of Health, Ananindeua, Brazil. (6)Vision Institute, Department of
Ophthalmology, Paulista Medical School, Federal University of São Paulo, São
Paulo, Brazil. (7)Vision Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Paulista Medical
School, Federal University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address:
prof.belfort@clinicabelfort.com.br.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.10.004 
PMID: 27914834  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


239. Ophthalmology. 2016 Nov 30. pii: S0161-6420(16)31833-4. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.10.035. [Epub ahead of print]

Optic Nerve Head Drusen Prevalence and Associated Factors in Clinically Normal
Subjects Measured Using Optical Coherence Tomography.

Ghassibi MP(1), Chien JL(2), Abumasmah RK(1), Liebmann JM(3), Ritch R(1), Park
SC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Moise and Chella Safra Advanced Ocular Imaging Laboratory, Einhorn Clinical
Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai, New York, New
York. (2)Moise and Chella Safra Advanced Ocular Imaging Laboratory, Einhorn
Clinical Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai, New
York, New York; George Washington University School of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Washington, DC. (3)Bernard and Shirlee Brown Glaucoma Research
Laboratory, Harkness Eye Institute, Columbia University Medical Center, New York,
New York. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital,
New York, New York; Department of Ophthalmology, Hofstra Northwell School of
Medicine, Hempstead, New York. Electronic address: sungchulpark1225@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence of optic nerve head drusen (ONHD) in
clinically normal subjects using enhanced depth imaging (EDI) optical coherence
tomography (OCT) and to evaluate associated factors.
DESIGN: Prospective, cross-sectional, observational study.
PARTICIPANTS: Total of 130 clinically normal subjects.
METHODS: Serial horizontal and vertical EDI OCT B-scans (interval between scans, 
∼30 μm) of the optic nerve head (ONH) were obtained in both eyes of clinically
normal subjects. Signs of ONHD were defined as horizontal hyperreflective bands
perpendicular to the OCT beam with or without a signal-poor core. The minimum
length of isolated hyperreflective bands was determined based on analysis of 34
eyes with clinically definite ONHD. Age, gender, ONH diameter, and axial length
were obtained from participants.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalence of ONHD in clinically normal subjects and its
association with age, gender, ONH diameter, and axial length.
RESULTS: Based on the measurements of 94 isolated hyperreflective bands in the 34
eyes with clinically definite ONHD, the minimum length of isolated
hyperreflective ONHD bands in clinically normal subjects was set as 45 μm (mean
minus 2 standard deviations). Among 260 clinically normal eyes (130 subjects; 68 
women; mean age, 40±17 years), EDI OCT was positive for horizontal
hyperreflective ONHD bands in 28 eyes (10.8%) of 19 subjects (14.6%). Of these 28
eyes, 25 eyes (9.6% of total 260 eyes) of 16 subjects (12.3% of total 130
subjects) showed isolated hyperreflective bands with no signal-poor core, and 3
eyes (1.2% of total 260 eyes) of 3 subjects (2.3% of total 130 subjects) showed a
signal-poor core surrounded by hyperreflective bands. No significant differences 
were found in mean age (44 vs. 39 years; P = 0.121) or gender distribution (56%
vs. 52% female; P = 0.766) between clinically normal subjects with
hyperreflective ONHD bands and those without. Logistic regression analysis showed
that a decrease in ONH diameter by 100 μm and axial length by 1 mm increased the 
odds of ONHD presence by 1.5-fold (odds ratio [OR] = 1.56 [confidence interval
(CI), 1.22-2.00]; P < 0.001) and 2-fold (OR = 2.00 [CI, 1.15-3.49]; P = 0.015),
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Subclinical ONHD may be more prevalent than previously believed.
Significant associations of subclinical ONHD with smaller ONH and shorter axial
length were found.

Copyright Â© 2016 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.10.035 
PMID: 27914831  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


240. Neuropeptides. 2016 Nov 25. pii: S0143-4179(16)30107-X. doi:
10.1016/j.npep.2016.11.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Distribution of the neuro-regulatory peptide galanin in the human eye.

Kaser-Eichberger A(1), Trost A(2), Strohmaier C(2), Bogner B(2), Runge C(2),
Bruckner D(2), Hohberger B(3), Jünemann A(4), Kofler B(5), Reitsamer HA(6),
Schrödl F(7).

Author information: 
(1)University Clinic of Ophthalmology and Optometry, Research Program for
Experimental Ophthalmology and Glaucoma Research, Paracelsus Medical
University/SALK, Salzburg, Austria. Electronic address:
a.kaser-eichberger@salk.at. (2)University Clinic of Ophthalmology and Optometry, 
Research Program for Experimental Ophthalmology and Glaucoma Research, Paracelsus
Medical University/SALK, Salzburg, Austria. (3)Dept. of Ophthalmology, University
Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany. (4)Dept. of Ophthalmology, University
Rostock, Rostock, Germany. (5)Laura-Bassi Centre of Expertise, THERAPEP, Research
Program of Receptor Biochemistry and Tumor Metabolism, Dept. of Pediatrics,
Paracelsus Medical University/SALK, Salzburg, Austria. (6)University Clinic of
Ophthalmology and Optometry, Research Program for Experimental Ophthalmology and 
Glaucoma Research, Paracelsus Medical University/SALK, Salzburg, Austria;
Director of the Research Program for Experimental Ophthalmology and Glaucoma
Research, Paracelsus Medical University/SALK, Salzburg, Austria. (7)University
Clinic of Ophthalmology and Optometry, Research Program for Experimental
Ophthalmology and Glaucoma Research, Paracelsus Medical University/SALK,
Salzburg, Austria; Dept. of Anatomy, Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg,
Austria.

Galanin (GAL) is a neuro-regulatory peptide involved in many physiological and
pathophysiological processes. While data of GAL origin/distribution in the human 
eye are rather fragmentary and since recently the presence of GAL-receptors in
the normal human eye has been reported, we here systematically search for sources
of ocular GAL in the human eye. Human eyes (n=14) were prepared for single- and
double-immunohistochemistry of GAL and neurofilaments (NF). Cross- and flat-mount
sections were achieved; confocal laser-scanning microscopy was used for
documentation. In the anterior eye, GAL-immunoreactivity (GAL-IR) was detected in
basal layers of corneal epithelium, endothelium, and in nerve fibers and
keratinocytes of the corneal stroma. In the conjunctiva, GAL-IR was seen
throughout all epithelial cell layers. In the iris, sphincter and dilator muscle 
and endothelium of iris vessels displayed GAL-IR. It was also detected in stromal
cells containing melanin granules, while these were absent in others. In the
ciliary body, ciliary muscle and pigmented as well as non-pigmented ciliary
epithelium displayed GAL-IR. In the retina, GAL-IR was detected in cells
associated with the ganglion cell layer, and in endothelial cells of retinal
blood vessels. In the choroid, nerve fibers of the choroidal stroma as well as
fibers forming boutons and surrounding choroidal blood vessels displayed GAL-IR. 
Further, the majority of intrinsic choroidal neurons were GAL-positive, as
revealed by co-localization-experiments with NF, while a minority displayed NF-
or GAL-IR only. GAL-IR was also detected in choroidal melanocytes, as identified 
by the presence of intracellular melanin-granules, as well as in cells lacking
melanin-granules, most likely representing macrophages. GAL-IR was detected in
numerous cells and tissues throughout the anterior and posterior eye and might
therefore be an important regulatory peptide for many aspects of ocular control. 
Upcoming studies in diseased tissue will help to clarify the role of GAL in
ocular homeostasis.

Copyright Â© 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.npep.2016.11.007 
PMID: 27914762  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


241. J Eukaryot Microbiol. 2016 Nov 7. doi: 10.1111/jeu.12382. [Epub ahead of print]

Molecular Phylogeny and Taxonomy of a New Freshwater Hymenostomatid from
Northeastern China, with the Establishment of a New Genus Anteglaucoma gen. n.
(Protista, Ciliophora, Oligohymenophorea).

Pan X(1), Shi Z(1), Wang C(2), Bourland WA(3), Chen Y(1), Song W(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Normal University, Harbin,
150025, China. (2)Institute of Evolution & Marine Biodiversity, Ocean University 
of China, Qingdao, 266003, China. (3)Department of Biological Sciences, Boise
State University, Boise, Idaho, 83725-1515.

The morphology, infraciliature and SSU rDNA sequence of a new freshwater
hymenostomatid ciliate, Anteglaucoma harbinensis gen. nov., spec. nov., collected
from a farmland pond in Harbin, China, were investigated. The new genus
Anteglaucoma is characterized as follows: small to medium-sized Glaucomidae with 
oral apparatus in anterior one-third of cell; paroral membrane composed of almost
longitudinally arranged dikinetids; three adoral membranelles nearly equal in
length and arranged almost longitudinally in parallel; silverline pattern
tetrahymenid. The improved diagnosis of family Glaucomidae Corliss 1971 is
provided based on the previous and present work. The type species Anteglaucoma
harbinensis spec. nov. is defined by having 32-35 somatic kineties; four or five 
postoral kineties; membranelle 1 and membranelle 2 having five or six kinetosomal
rows, membranelle 3 having three kinetosomal rows; single macronuclear nodule;
contractile vacuole on average 15% from posterior body end; locomotion
characterized by crawling with a rather hectic jerking motion; freshwater
habitat. Phylogenetic analyses show that Anteglaucoma clusters in the family
Glaucomidae and groups with the genera Glaucoma. The molecular and morphological 
data indicate that Glaucomidae is related to the family Bromeliophryidae in the
phylogenetic trees.

© 2016 The Author(s) Journal of Eukaryotic Microbiology © 2016 International
Society of Protistologists.

DOI: 10.1111/jeu.12382 
PMID: 27914115  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


242. Adv Ther. 2017 Jan;34(1):221-235. doi: 10.1007/s12325-016-0448-9. Epub 2016 Dec
2.

24-Hour Efficacy and Ocular Surface Health with Preservative-Free Tafluprost
Alone and in Conjunction with Preservative-Free Dorzolamide/Timolol Fixed
Combination in Open-Angle Glaucoma Patients Insufficiently Controlled with
Preserved Latanoprost Monotherapy.

Konstas AG(1,)(2), Boboridis KG(3,)(4), Kapis P(3), Marinopoulos K(3),
Voudouragkaki IC(3), Panayiotou D(3), Mikropoulos DG(4), Pagkalidou E(5), Haidich
AB(5), Katsanos A(6), Quaranta L(7).

Author information: 
(1)1st University Department of Ophthalmology, Aristotle University of
Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece. konstas@med.auth.gr. (2)3rd University
Department of Ophthalmology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, 
Greece. konstas@med.auth.gr. (3)1st University Department of Ophthalmology,
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece. (4)3rd University
Department of Ophthalmology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, 
Greece. (5)Department of Hygiene, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki,
Thessaloniki, Greece. (6)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Ioannina,
Ioannina, Greece. (7)Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, Section of
Ophthalmology, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of the present study was to evaluate the 24-h efficacy,
tolerability, and ocular surface health with preservative-free (PF) tafluprost
and a PF triple drug regimen comprising tafluprost and dorzolamide/timolol fixed 
combination (DTFC) in open-angle glaucoma patients who were insufficiently
controlled with preserved branded or generic latanoprost monotherapy and who
exhibited signs or symptoms of ocular surface disease (OSD).
METHODS: Prospective, observer-masked, crossover, comparison. Eligible
consecutive open-angle glaucoma patients were randomized to either PF tafluprost 
or the triple PF regimen for 3 months. They were then crossed over to the
opposite therapy for another 3 months. At the end of the latanoprost run-in
period and after each PF treatment period, patients underwent habitual 24-h
intraocular pressure (IOP) monitoring with Goldmann tonometry in the sitting
position (at 10:00, 14:00, 18:00, and 22:00) and Perkins tonometry in the supine 
position (at 02:00 and 06:00). Tolerability and selected ocular surface
parameters were evaluated at baseline and the end of each treatment period.
RESULTS: Forty-three open-angle glaucoma patients completed the trial. Mean 24-h 
IOP on preserved latanoprost was 22.2 ± 3.9 mmHg. Compared with latanoprost
monotherapy, PF tafluprost obtained a greater reduction in mean, peak, and
fluctuation of 24-h IOP including the 02:00 and 06:00 time points (P < 0.05).
With the exception of 24-h fluctuation, the triple PF regimen provided
significantly lower IOP parameters than latanoprost or PF tafluprost (P < 0.001).
Finally, PF tafluprost therapy displayed significantly improved tear film
break-up times (6.7 vs 6.0 s), corneal staining (1.3 vs 2.2), and Schirmer I test
results (9.1 vs 8.2 mm) compared with the preserved latanoprost baseline (all
P < 0.01). The triple PF regimen demonstrated similar tear film break-up times
(6.1 vs 6.0 s) and Schirmer I test results (8.2 vs 8.2 mm) to latanoprost, but
revealed a significant improvement in the corneal stain test (1.7 vs 2.2;
P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: In this trial PF tafluprost therapy provided statistically greater
24-h efficacy and improved tolerability compared with preserved latanoprost. The 
combination of PF tafluprost and PF dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination was
statistically and clinically more efficacious than both monotherapies and
demonstrated similar ocular surface characteristics to preserved latanoprost
monotherapy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02802137).
FUNDING: Santen.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-016-0448-9 
PMID: 27913991  [PubMed - in process]


243. Intern Emerg Med. 2016 Dec 2. [Epub ahead of print]

Network meta-analysis: an introduction for clinicians.

Rouse B(1), Chaimani A(2), Li T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Clinical Trials and Evidence Synthesis, Department of Epidemiology,
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Hygiene and Epidemiology, University of Ioannina School of
Medicine, University Campus Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece. (3)Center for Clinical
Trials and Evidence Synthesis, Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA. tli19@jhu.edu.

Network meta-analysis is a technique for comparing multiple treatments
simultaneously in a single analysis by combining direct and indirect evidence
within a network of randomized controlled trials. Network meta-analysis may
assist assessing the comparative effectiveness of different treatments regularly 
used in clinical practice and, therefore, has become attractive among clinicians.
However, if proper caution is not taken in conducting and interpreting network
meta-analysis, inferences might be biased. The aim of this paper is to illustrate
the process of network meta-analysis with the aid of a working example on
first-line medical treatment for primary open-angle glaucoma. We discuss the key 
assumption of network meta-analysis, as well as the unique considerations for
developing appropriate research questions, conducting the literature search,
abstracting data, performing qualitative and quantitative synthesis, presenting
results, drawing conclusions, and reporting the findings in a network
meta-analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-016-1583-7 
PMID: 27913917  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


244. Vestn Oftalmol. 2016;132(5):54-59.

[Ocular hydrodynamics after phacoemulsification cataract surgery in patients with
primary open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Kalizhnikova EA(1), Lebedev OI(2), Shchipacheva OV(3), Pecheritsa GG(3).

Author information: 
(1)V.P. Vykhodtsev Clinical Ophthalmological Hospital, Omsk, Russian Federation; 
Omsk State Medical University, Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation,
Omsk, Russian Federation. (2)Omsk State Medical University, Ministry of Health of
the Russian Federation, Omsk, Russian Federation. (3)V.P. Vykhodtsev Clinical
Ophthalmological Hospital, Omsk, Russian Federation.

AIM: To investigate parameters of intraocular fluid outflow after
phacoemulsification of cataract in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
(POAG).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study involved 153 cataract patients (153 eyes), most
of whom also had POAG. The patients were divided into three groups: group 1 - 51 
patients (51 eyes) with cataract but no glaucoma, group 2 - 51 patients (51 eyes)
with cataract and early POAG, and group 3 - 51 patients (51 eyes) with cataract
and advanced POAG. All of them underwent non-contact pneumatic tonometry,
tonography, and tonography with vacuum compression (Glau-Test60) before and after
surgery (phacoemulsification of cataract with implantation of a posterior chamber
intraocular lens (IOL)). The follow-up period was 6 months.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Phacoemulsification surgery with IOL implantation was
able to reduce intraocular pressure in non-glaucoma cataract patients by 3 to 5
mmHg in 21.57% of cases and by more than 5 mmHg in 58.8% of cases. In patients
with early and advanced glaucoma, a 3 to 5 mmHg decrease occurred in 33.3% and
13.7% of cases, respectively, and a more than 5 mmHg decrease - in 49.02% and
56.9%, respectively. This reduction is due to activation of intraocular fluid
outflow.
CONCLUSION: A postoperative increase in trabecular and uveoscleral outflow has
been detected in all groups. The change was more significant in non-glaucoma
patients and those with early disease.


PMID: 27911426  [PubMed - in process]


245. Curr Eye Res. 2016 Dec 2:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Time Course of Conjunctival Hyperemia Induced by a Rho-kinase Inhibitor
Anti-glaucoma Eye Drop: Ripasudil 0.4.

Terao E(1), Nakakura S(1), Fujisawa Y(1), Fujio Y(1), Matsuya K(1), Kobayashi
Y(1), Tabuchi H(1), Yoneda T(2), Fukushima A(2), Kiuchi Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Saneikai Tsukazaki Hospital , Himeji City ,
Japan. (2)b Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science , Kochi Medical School
, Nankoku City , Japan. (3)c Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences,
Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences , Hiroshima University , Hiroshima City , 
Japan.

PURPOSE: We investigated the detailed time course of conjunctival hyperemia
induced by ripasudil 0.4%, a novel Rho-kinase inhibitor anti-glaucoma eye drop,
in healthy subjects.
METHODS: We recruited 51 healthy subjects and administered ripasudil 0.4% in
their right eye. We evaluated conjunctival hyperemia using slit lamp photography 
and measured the intraocular pressure (IOP) using the Icare PRO Rebound Tonometer
at baseline and after 5, 15, 30, 60, 90, and 120 min. The conjunctival hyperemia 
score was graded by three independent observers on a scale of 0 (none) to 3
(severe). Additionally, we analyzed the "percent coverage" of conjunctival
hyperemia by using an automated hyperemia analysis software program; this program
provides the pixel coverage of the conjunctival vessels in the region of
interest. Dunnett and Steel multiple comparison tests were used, as appropriate, 
for the subsequent analyses.
RESULTS: The conjunctival hyperemia score and percent coverage increased rapidly 
after the instillation of ripasudil 0.4%, peaking at 15 min (score: 1.83 ± 0.29
[mean ± SD]) and 5 min (11.6% ± 4.7%), respectively, and then gradually
decreasing until 120 min (0.45 ± 0.22 and 4.7% ± 1.8%, respectively), when they
reached a level that was not significantly different from the baseline values.
The IOP decreased significantly compared to the baseline at 30, 60, and 90 min,
based on the Dunnett test.
CONCLUSION: Conjunctival hyperemia induced by ripasudil 0.4% peaks rapidly to
moderate severity, but subsides relatively quickly.

DOI: 10.1080/02713683.2016.1250276 
PMID: 27911106  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


246. J Clin Ultrasound. 2016 Dec 2. doi: 10.1002/jcu.22427. [Epub ahead of print]

Congenital glaucoma detected by unilateral megalophthalmos on prenatal
sonography.

Gennette S(1), Carlan SJ(1), Busowski J(1), Madruga M(2), McWhorter J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Orlando Healthcare, 1401 Lucerne
Terrace, 2nd floor, Orlando, FL, 32806. (2)Department of Internal Medicine,
Orlando Healthcare, 1401 Lucerne Terrace, 2nd floor, Orlando, FL, 32806.

A 36-week male fetus was noted to have isolated right megalophthalmos on prenatal
ultrasound and was found to have buphthalmos and congenital glaucoma at birth.
Detection of congenital glaucoma at birth may be occasionally possible if
abnormal orbit dimensions are noted on late prenatal sonographic examination.
Early neonatal intervention may improve the chances to retain vision. © 2016
Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Clin Ultrasound, 2016.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcu.22427 
PMID: 27911017  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


247. Biomech Model Mechanobiol. 2016 Dec 1. [Epub ahead of print]

Verification of a virtual fields method to extract the mechanical properties of
human optic nerve head tissues in vivo.

Zhang L(1,)(2), Thakku SG(3), Beotra MR(2), Baskaran M(3,)(4), Aung T(3,)(5), Goh
JC(6), Strouthidis NG(3,)(7,)(8), Girard MJ(9,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)NUS Graduate School for Integrative Sciences and Engineering, National
University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore. (2)Ophthalmic Engineering and
Innovation Laboratory, Department of Biomedical Engineering, National University 
of Singapore, 4 Engineering Drive 3, Block E4 #04-08, Singapore, 117583,
Singapore. (3)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye Centre,
Singapore, Singapore. (4)Eye-ACP, Office of Clinical, Academic and Faculty
Affairs, Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore, Singapore. (5)Yong Loo Lin School of
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore. (6)Tissue
Repair Laboratory, Department of Biomedical Engineering, National University of
Singapore, Singapore, Singapore. (7)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Moorfields
Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London, UK.
(8)Discipline of Clinical Ophthalmology and Eye Health, University of Sydney,
Sydney, NSW, Australia. (9)Ophthalmic Engineering and Innovation Laboratory,
Department of Biomedical Engineering, National University of Singapore, 4
Engineering Drive 3, Block E4 #04-08, Singapore, 117583, Singapore.
mgirard@nus.edu.sg. (10)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore National Eye 
Centre, Singapore, Singapore. mgirard@nus.edu.sg.

We aimed to verify a custom virtual fields method (VFM) to estimate the
patient-specific biomechanical properties of human optic nerve head (ONH)
tissues, given their full-field deformations induced by intraocular pressure
(IOP). To verify the accuracy of VFM, we first generated 'artificial' ONH
displacements from predetermined (known) ONH tissue biomechanical properties
using finite element analysis. Using such deformations, if we are able to match
back the known biomechanical properties, it would indicate that our VFM technique
is accurate. The peripapillary sclera was assumed anisotropic hyperelastic, while
all other ONH tissues were considered isotropic. The simulated ONH displacements 
were fed into the VFM algorithm to extract back the biomechanical properties. The
robustness of VFM was also tested against rigid body motions and noise added to
the simulated displacements. Then, the computational speed of VFM was compared to
that of a gold-standard stiffness measurement method (inverse finite element
method or IFEM). Finally, as proof of principle, VFM was applied to IOP-induced
ONH deformation data (obtained from one subject's eye imaged with OCT), and the
biomechanical properties of the prelamina and lamina cribrosa (LC) were
extracted. From given ONH displacements, VFM successfully matched back the
biomechanical properties of ONH tissues with high accuracy and efficiency. For
all parameters, the percentage errors were less than 0.05%. Our method was
insensitive to rigid body motions and was also able to recover the material
parameters in the presence of noise. VFM was also found 125 times faster than the
gold-standard IFEM. Finally, the estimated shear modulus for the prelamina and
the LC of the studied subject's eye were 33.7 and 63.5 kPa, respectively. VFM may
be capable of measuring the biomechanical properties of ONH tissues with high
speed and accuracy. It has potential in identifying patient-specific ONH
biomechanical properties in the clinic if combined with optical coherence
tomography.

DOI: 10.1007/s10237-016-0858-2 
PMID: 27909833  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


248. Ophthalmologe. 2016 Dec 1. [Epub ahead of print]

[Clinical, morphological and molecular biological characteristics of the aging
eye].

[Article in German]

Böhm MR(1), Thomasen H(2), Parnitzke F(2), Steuhl KP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Augenheilkunde, Klinik für Erkrankungen des vorderen
Augenabschnittes, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Hufelandstr. 55, 45147, Essen,
Deutschland. michael.boehm@uk-essen.de. (2)Zentrum für Augenheilkunde, Klinik für
Erkrankungen des vorderen Augenabschnittes, Universitätsklinikum Essen,
Hufelandstr. 55, 45147, Essen, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: The physiological aging of the eye is associated with loss of visual 
function. Age-related changes of the eye can result in ophthalmological diseases.
The aim of this article is to display morphological, histological and molecular
biological alterations of the aging eye.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A web-based search and review of the literature for aging
of the visual system including cornea, lens, vitreous humor, retina, retinal
pigment epithelium (RPE), choroidea and optic nerve were carried out. The most
important results related to morphological, histological and molecular biological
changes are summarized.
RESULTS: Age-related, morphological alterations can be found in preretinal
structures, e. g. cornea, lens and vitreous humor, as well as neuronal
structures, such as the retina. In addition to negligible clinical signs of the
aging eye, there are clinically relevant changes which can develop into
pathological ophthalmological diseases. These transitions from age-related
alterations to relevant ophthalmological diseases, e. g. age-related macular
degeneration and glaucoma are continuous.
CONCLUSION: An understanding of aging could provide predictive factors to detect 
the conversion of physiological aging into pathological conditions. The
derivation of physiological markers or new approaches to detection and treatment 
of disease-related entities associated with the risk factor aging are desirable. 
Translational approaches in clinical and basic science are necessary to provide
new therapeutic options for relevant ophthalmological diseases in the future.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-016-0403-9 
PMID: 27909796  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


249. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 1;11(12):e0166893. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166893.
eCollection 2016.

Role of Platelet Parameters on Neovascular Glaucoma: A Retrospective Case-Control
Study in China.

Li S(1), Cao W(1,)(2), Sun X(2,)(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual
Science, Eye & ENT Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, Institutes of Brain Science,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China. (4)Key Laboratory of Myopia, Ministry of
Health (Fudan University), Shanghai, China. (5)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Visual 
Impairment and Restoration (Fudan University), Shanghai, China.

PURPOSE: Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) and diabetic retinopathy (DR) are two major
sight-threatening diseases which may lead to neovascular glaucoma (NVG). The aim 
of this study was to explore the association between platelet parameters and NVG.
METHODS: A total of 185 subjects were enrolled for the study from January, 2012
to December, 2015 at the Eye-ENT Hospital of Fudan University. Patients include
those with NVG secondary to RVO (RVO group, n = 38), patients with NVG secondary 
to DR (DR group, n = 47), diabetics mellitus without retinopathy (DM group, n =
52), and healthy individuals (control group, n = 48). A complete ophthalmological
examination including visual field examination, A-scan ultrasound, Fundus
photography, and measurement of platelet parameters were performed for NVG
subjects.
RESULTS: There was no statistical difference in the mean age and gender among the
RVO, DR, and control groups (p>0.05). The mean level of platelet distribution
width (PDW) was higher (p<0.001) in the RVO group (15.16±2.13fl) and DR group
(16.17±1.66fl) when compared with the control group (13.77±2.99fl). The mean
plateletcrit (PCT) value of the RVO group (0.229±0.063%) was also higher (p =
0.049) than the control group (0.199±0.045). In the DR group, mean platelet
volume (MPV) value (10.72±1.57fl) was significantly higher (p = 0.002) than the
control group (9.75±0.89fl). A similar trend was observed when platelet
parameters were compared among the 3 groups with respect to age. The mean level
of PDW was significantly higher (p<0.001) in the DR group (16.17±1.66fl) compared
with the DM group (13.80±3.32fl). Stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis 
revealed that PDW (OR = 1.44, 95%CI = 1.149-1.805, p = 0.002) and MPV (OR =
1.503, 95%CI = 1.031-2.192, p = 0.034) were associated with the DR group, PDW (OR
= 1.207, 95%CI = 1.010-1.443, p = 0.039) and PCT (OR = 1.663, 95%CI =
1.870-2.654, p = 0.036) were associated with the RVO group.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that increased PDW and MPV are associated with
the NVG secondary to DR group, elevated PDW and PCT are associated with the RVO
group. It indicates that platelets might be an important factor in the onset
and/or development of NVG.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166893 
PMCID: PMC5131990
PMID: 27907042  [PubMed - in process]


250. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 1;11(12):e0166915. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166915.
eCollection 2016.

Oxidative and Anti-Oxidative Stress Markers in Chronic Glaucoma: A Systematic
Review and Meta-Analysis.

Benoist d'Azy C(1,)(2), Pereira B(3), Chiambaretta F(1), Dutheil
F(2,)(4,)(5,)(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital of Clermont-Ferrand (CHU), Ophthalmology,
Clermont-Ferrand, France. (2)University Hospital of Clermont-Ferrand (CHU),
Preventive and Occupational Medicine, Clermont-Ferrand, France. (3)University
Hospital of Clermont-Ferrand (CHU), Clinical Research Direction,
Clermont-Ferrand, France. (4)CNRS Physiological and Psychosocial Stress, LAPSCO, 
University Clermont Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France. (5)Australian Catholic
University, Faculty of Health, School of Exercise Science, Melbourne, Australia. 
(6)University Clermont Auvergne, Laboratory of Metabolic Adaptations to Exercise 
in Physiological and Pathological conditions EA3533, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(7)Research Centre in Human Nutrition (CRNH) Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France.

Chronic glaucoma is a multifactorial disease among which oxidative stress may
play a major pathophysiological role. We conducted a systematic review and
meta-analysis to evaluate the levels of oxidative and antioxidative stress
markers in chronic glaucoma compared with a control group. The PubMed, Cochrane
Library, Embase and Science Direct databases were searched for studies reporting 
oxidative and antioxidative stress markers in chronic glaucoma and in healthy
controls using the following keywords: "oxidative stress" or "oxidant stress" or 
"nitrative stress" or "oxidative damage" or "nitrative damage" or "antioxidative 
stress" or "antioxidant stress" or "antinitrative stress" and "glaucoma". We
stratified our meta-analysis on the type of biomarkers, the type of glaucoma, and
the origin of the sample (serum or aqueous humor). We included 22 case-control
studies with a total of 2913 patients: 1614 with glaucoma and 1319 healthy
controls. We included 12 studies in the meta-analysis on oxidative stress markers
and 19 on antioxidative stress markers. We demonstrated an overall increase in
oxidative stress markers in glaucoma (effect size = 1.64; 95%CI 1.20-2.09),
ranging from an effect size of 1.29 in serum (95%CI 0.84-1.74) to 2.62 in aqueous
humor (95%CI 1.60-3.65). Despite a decrease in antioxidative stress marker in
serum (effect size = -0.41; 95%CI -0.72 to -0.11), some increased in aqueous
humor (superoxide dismutase, effect size = 3.53; 95%CI 1.20-5.85 and glutathione 
peroxidase, effect size = 6.60; 95%CI 3.88-9.31). The differences in the serum
levels of oxidative stress markers between glaucoma patients and controls were
significantly higher in primary open angle glaucoma vs primary angle closed
glaucoma (effect size = 12.7; 95%CI 8.78-16.6, P < 0.001), and higher in
pseudo-exfoliative glaucoma vs primary angle closed glaucoma (effect size = 12.2;
95%CI 8.96-15.5, P < 0.001). In conclusion, oxidative stress increased in
glaucoma, both in serum and aqueous humor. Malonyldialdehyde seemed the best
biomarkers of oxidative stress in serum. The increase of some antioxidant markers
could be a protective response of the eye against oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166915 
PMCID: PMC5131953
PMID: 27907028  [PubMed - in process]


251. N Z Med J. 2016 Dec 2;129(1446):33-37.

High rate of incidental glaucoma detection in New Zealand.

LaHood BR(1), Erceg J(2), Bevin TH(2), Sanderson G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Dunedin Hospital, Dunedin. (2)Department of
Medicine, University of Otago, Dunedin School of Medicine, Dunedin. (3)Department
of Ophthalmology, University of Otago, Dunedin School of Medicine, Dunedin.

AIM: To investigate how glaucoma is initially detected in New Zealanders and what
factors aroused disease suspicion.
METHODS: A postal survey of 500 randomly selected members of the Glaucoma New
Zealand database was undertaken in 2012 to analyse factors relating to their
initial presentation and diagnosis of glaucoma. Online surveys and telephone
interviews were used to increase the response rate.
RESULTS: The overall response rate was 80% (376/468) of eligible participants.
The sample had an average age of 76 years. Prior to diagnosis, 80% (290/361) of
participants who responded to this question reported no suspicion of glaucoma. A 
positive family history for glaucoma was the most common reason (71%) for
presenting to a health care professional with a suspicion of glaucoma (13% of
total sample). After diagnosis, 95% (357/376) of respondents reported that they
had informed family members of their diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirmed that the majority of glaucoma was discovered
through incidental findings. A positive family history was the most common risk
factor prompting examination, knowledge about which appeared to increase
dramatically post-diagnosis. These findings indicated that there was potential to
educate the public about glaucoma in order to raise awareness and diagnose the
disease earlier.


PMID: 27906916  [PubMed - in process]


252. J Glaucoma. 2016 Nov 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Intraocular Pressure Measurements After Descemet Membrane Endothelial
Keratoplasty.

Maier AB(1), Gundlach E, Pahlitzsch M, Gonnermann J, Corkhill C, Bertelmann E,
Joussen AM, Klamann MK, Torun N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Germany.

PURPOSE: Intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation occurs regularly after Descemet
membrane endothelial keratoplasty (DMEK). This study evaluated the effect of
central corneal thickness (CCT) on the IOP after DMEK.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This prospective study recorded the IOP of 46 eyes from 46 
patients preoperatively, and then 1 and 3 months after DMEK. IOP measurement was 
performed by noncontact pneumatic tonometry (NCT), iCare, Goldmann applanation
tonometry (GAT), and dynamic contour tonometry (DCT). CCT was analyzed by
anterior-segment optical coherence tomography.
RESULTS: Mean IOPs as measured by NCT, iCare, GAT, and DCT, respectively, were
14.3, 11.6, 12.7, and 16.0 mm Hg preoperatively; 13.1, 12.6, 12.7, and 16.0 mm Hg
after 1 month; and 14.7, 14.5, 12.9, and 17.7 mm Hg after 3 months. There was a
correlation of IOP measurements between GAT and NCT (P=0.119), GAT and iCare
(P=0.892), and iCare and NCT (P=0.081) after 1 month and between iCare and NCT
(P=0.702) after 3 months. Although GAT recorded approximately stable IOP values, 
NCT, iCare, and DCT tended to measure a higher IOP postoperatively than
preoperatively. Preoperatively, correlations between IOP and CCT were not
statistically significant for any measurement technique. After 3 months, the IOP 
measured by NCT and iCare correlated significantly with CCT (P=0.003, 0.041).
CONCLUSIONS: Correlation between the different measurement techniques was poor
and showed a broad distribution of limits of agreement. Therefore, a change
between the 4 techniques during follow-up is not recommended. Nevertheless, all
techniques detected the IOP elevation during follow-up, requiring therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000593 
PMID: 27906816  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


253. J Glaucoma. 2016 Nov 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Structural and Histologic Eyelid Changes Associated with 6 Months of Topical
Bimatoprost in the Rabbit.

Kent TL(1), Custer PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University, St
Louis, MO.

PURPOSE: To determine the periorbital effects of daily 0.03% bimatoprost in New
Zealand white (NZW) rabbits.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: NZW rabbits were treated with daily 0.03% bimatoprost,
artificial tears, or left untreated. Following 3 and 6 months of treatment,
eyelid measurements were obtained for both upper and lower eyelid distraction, as
well as canthus-to-canthus measurements. Once complete, subjects were humanely
euthanized and eyelid tissue was utilized for histology. Hematoxylin and eosin
staining, along with Verhoeff Van Giesen staining was performed on
paraffin-embedded sections. Tissue was also stained with mActin antibodies as a
marker for fibroblast activity.
RESULTS: Daily, topical 0.03% bimatoprost induced eyelid tightening and
shortening the NZW rabbit. These findings were most striking at the 6-month
timepoint, suggesting a temporal component to these induced changes.
Histologically, eyelid tissue demonstrated thinning in bimatoprost-treated
eyelids compared with those receiving artificial tears. Slightly increased mActin
and Verhoeff Van Giesen staining was observed, suggesting increased fibroblast
activity and elastin production in prostaglandin analogs-treated eyelids.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that eyelid tissue thins and tightens over
time, following daily administration of 0.03% bimatoprost in the NZW rabbit.
These findings are similar to what has been observed in human patients.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000591 
PMID: 27906815  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


254. J Glaucoma. 2016 Nov 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Prevalence and Visual Outcome of Glaucoma With Uveitis in a Thai Population.

Pathanapitoon K(1), Smitharuck S, Kunavisarut P, Rothova A.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University,
Chiang Mai, Thailand †Department of Ophthalmology, Erasmus Medical Center,
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to report on the prevalence of uveitic
secondary glaucoma (USG) and ocular hypertension in patients with uveitis in
Thailand, and to identify factors associated with the development of USG and its 
visual outcome.
DESIGN: This is a retrospective cohort study.
METHODS: We included 174 consecutive uveitis patients (237 affected eyes)
visiting the Ophthalmology Department of Chiang Mai University Hospital,
Thailand, from January 2013 to March 2013.
RESULTS: The prevalence of USG was 29% (51/174) and that of ocular hypertension
was 18% (32/174). The follow-up period ranged from 3 to 96 months (mean±SD=33±21 
mo). Characteristics associated with the development of USG were as follows: age 
at onset of uveitis above 60 years and longer duration of uveitis (P=0.001). No
association between location of uveitis and development of USG was observed.
Clinical entities associated with the highest prevalence of USG consisted of
Posner-Schlossman syndrome and herpetic uveitis. Within the anterior uveitis
group, viral etiology was strongly associated with the development of USG,
whereas human leukocyte antigen-B27 (HLA-B27)-associated anterior uveitis had
lower prevalence of USG than did their HLA-B27-negative counterparts. The
prevalence of patients with at least 1 blind eye was significantly higher in
those who developed USG (21/51; 41%) than in uveitis patients without glaucoma
(22/123; 18%, P=0.001). Characteristics associated with visual loss in USG
included poor visual acuity at presentation (P<0.001), and undergoing glaucoma
surgery (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of secondary glaucoma among Southeast Asian patients 
with uveitis was 29%. Blindness in at least 1 eye developed more commonly in
patients with USG than in uveitis patients without USG.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000592 
PMID: 27906814  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


255. J Glaucoma. 2016 Nov 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Truncation of In Situ Baerveldt Glaucoma Drainage Device for Treatment of Late
Persistent Postoperative Hypotony.

Chen PP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA.

PURPOSE: To describe a new technique to treat late persistent hypotony after
Baerveldt glaucoma drainage device surgery.
METHODS: Review of 2 cases treated with in situ truncation of one or both wings
of the Baerveldt device, combined with permanent but releasable tube occlusion.
RESULTS: Two eyes with persistent hypotony underwent in situ truncation of one or
both wings of the Baerveldt device with resolution of hypotony. Recurrence of
elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in both cases required reversal of tube
occlusion, after which the IOP has remained both well controlled and sufficiently
elevated to avoid complications of hypotony over 13 and 43 months.
CONCLUSIONS: In situ truncation of Baerveldt drainage device with permanent,
releasable tube occlusion offers a safe and effective intervention for eyes with 
late hypotony, and also allows for maintenance of IOP control long term.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000601 
PMID: 27906813  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


256. J Glaucoma. 2016 Nov 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of Cyclopentolate on In Vivo Schlemm Canal Microarchitecture in Healthy
Subjects.

Rosman MS(1), Skaat A, Chien JL, Ghassibi MP, Sarimiye TF, Ritch R, Liebmann JM, 
Park SC.

Author information: 
(1)*Moise and Chella Safra Advanced Ocular Imaging Laboratory, Einhorn Clinical
Research Center, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai ‡Bernard and
Shirlee Brown Glaucoma Research Laboratory, Harkness Eye Institute, Columbia
University Medical Center §Department of Ophthalmology, Manhattan Eye, Ear and
Throat Hospital, New York ∥Department of Ophthalmology, Hofstra Northwell School 
of Medicine, Hempstead, NY †George Washington University School of Medicine and
Health Sciences, Washington, DC.

PURPOSE: To characterize the in vivo effect of cyclopentolate on the
microstructure of Schlemm canal (SC) in healthy eyes.
METHODS: For healthy subjects, 81 serial horizontal enhanced depth imaging
optical coherence tomography B-scans (interval between scans, ∼35 μm) of the
nasal corneoscleral limbal area were obtained before and 1 hour after
cyclopentolate 1% administration in 1 eye. The structures of aqueous and blood
vessels in each scan were used as landmarks to select 50 overlapping scans
between the 2 sets of 81 serial scans (before and after cyclopentolate
administration). The SC cross-sectional area was measured in each of the 50
selected scans. After 3-dimensional reconstruction, SC volume was determined.
RESULTS: Twelve eyes (12 healthy subjects) were imaged successfully before and
after cyclopentolate administration. Mean age was 27.8±4.9 years (range, 25 to 38
y). Following cyclopentolate administration, mean intraocular pressure did not
change significantly (13.9±1.5 to 14.2±1.5 mm Hg; P=0.19). Mean SC
cross-sectional area decreased by 17%, from 3563±706 to 2959±460 μm (P<0.001).
Mean SC volume in the overlapping area (approximately 1.7 mm of circumferential
length of SC) decreased from 6,164,061±1,220,787 to 5,119,462±794,763 μm
(P<0.001). The decrease in the mean SC cross-sectional area after cyclopentolate 
administration was greater in eyes with larger baseline SC cross-sectional area
(P<0.001, R=0.873).
CONCLUSIONS: Cyclopentolate causes a reduction in SC dimensions in healthy eyes. 
Future studies are warranted to determine the exact mechanism(s) of this change.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000599 
PMID: 27906812  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


257. J Glaucoma. 2016 Nov 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Measurement of Radial Peripapillary Capillary Density in the Normal Human Retina 
Using Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography.

Mansoori T(1), Sivaswamy J, Gamalapati JS, Agraharam SG, Balakrishna N.

Author information: 
(1)*Anand Eye Institute †International Institute of Information Technology
‡National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad, India.

AIM: To image the radial peripapillary capillary (RPC) network with optical
coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) and measure its capillary density (CD) in
the normal human retina.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty-two normal participants underwent OCTA imaging with 
RTVue XR 100 Avanti OCT. The angioflow enface RPCs network was extracted from
OCTA and 8 peripapillary sectors with a sector angle of 45 degrees were selected 
for quantitative analysis: superior nasal, superior temporal, temporal upper,
temporal lower, nasal upper, nasal lower, inferior nasal, and inferior temporal. 
CD was measured within a 3.4-mm circle diameter around the optic nerve head (ONH)
using the Bar-Selective Combination of Shifted Filter Responses method.
RESULTS: Using OCTA, the RPC network was visualized with excellent detail as a
distinctive pattern of parallel, long, uniform-diameter vessels around ONH,
oriented parallel to the retinal nerve fiber layer. The mean overall RPC density 
within the circle diameter of 3.4 mm around ONH was 0.21±0.053 (95% confidence
interval: 0.204-0.216). The CD at the superior temporal (0.243±0.045) and
inferior temporal (0.242±0.047) sectors was higher (P<0.05) when compared with
the other sectors. Age, sex (P=0.7), and disc size (P=0.3) did not have a
significant effect on CD measurement.
CONCLUSIONS: We imaged and describe a reproducible method to measure the RPC
density, which would help us to understand the role of this vascular bed in the
functioning of the retinal nerve fiber layer. Our study demonstrated that there
was symmetry in superior and inferior corresponding pair sectors with respect to 
the horizontal meridian and symmetry between paired sectors at the nasal and
temporal poles with respect to the vertical meridian.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000594 
PMID: 27906811  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


258. J Glaucoma. 2016 Nov 30. [Epub ahead of print]

A Comparative Analysis of Goldmann Tonometry Correction.

Asejczyk-Widlicka M(1), Srodka W, Pierscionek BK.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Optics and Photonics †Deformable Body Mechanics Faculty Unit,
Wroclaw University of Technology, Smoluchowskiego, Wroclaw, Poland ‡School of
Life Sciences, Faculty of Science, Engineering and Computing, Kingston University
London, UK.

PURPOSE: The measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP) by Goldmann applanation
tonometry (GAT) is based on assumptions about corneal parameters. To correct for 
variations in corneal curvature and thickness, a number of equations have been
proposed. This study evaluates the in vivo accuracy of these equations from
individuals with primary open-angle glaucoma and compared them with measurements 
taken using the Pascal dynamic contour tonometer (DCT), which makes no
assumptions about the corneal geometry or biomechanics.
PARTICIPANTS AND METHODS: The study included 108 participants with primary
open-angle glaucoma (47 male and 61 female) with an age range of 39 to 81 years. 
Participants were recruited from the Glaucoma Clinic at Wroclaw Medical
University. A full ophthalmologic examination was conducted on all participants. 
Participants were divided into 3 groups depending on IOP as measured by GAT. Six 
formulae were applied and the results were compared with measurements taken with 
DCT.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: To determine as to which formula provides the closest
value to IOP measured with DCT.
RESULTS: For IOP values ≤29 mm Hg, 2 of the formulae showed the smallest and
comparable mean differences and SDs between corrected IOP values obtained with
GAT and those measured with DCT. For IOP≥30 mm Hg, the formula derived from the
model of corneal applanation that takes into account corneal buckling showed the 
closest agreement with measurements taken using DCT.
CONCLUSIONS: Correction formulae provide widely varying results and their
appropriateness can depend on the IOP values.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000588 
PMID: 27906810  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


259. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 Oct;64(10):756-761. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.195002.

Association between the p53 codon 72 polymorphism and primary open-angle glaucoma
risk: Meta-analysis based on 11 case-control studies.

Gohari M(1), Neámatzadeh H(2), Jafari MA(3), Mazaheri M(2), Zare-Shehneh M(2),
Abbasi-Shavazi E(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Geriatric Ophthalmology Research Center, Shahid
Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran. (2)Departments of Medical
Genetics, Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical
Sciences, Yazd, Iran. (4)Department of Emergency Medicine, Infectious Diseases
Research Center, Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.

The TP53 is important in functions of cell cycle control, apoptosis, and
maintenance of DNA integrity. Studies on the association between p53 codon 72
polymorphism and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) risk have yielded conflicting
results. Published literature from PubMed and Web of Science databases was
retrieved. All studies evaluating the association between p53 codon 72
polymorphisms and POAG were included. Pooled odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence
interval (CI) were calculated. Eleven separate studies including 2541 cases and
1844 controls were pooled in the meta-analysis. We did not detect a significant
association between POAG risk and p53 codon 72 polymorphism overall population
except allele genetic model (C vs. G: OR = 0.961, 95% CI = 0.961-0.820, P =
0.622). In the stratified analysis for Asians and Caucasians, there was an
association between p53 codon 72 polymorphism and POAG. In the dominant model in 
the overall population and by ethnicity subgroups, the highest elevated POAG risk
was presented. In summary, these results indicate that p53 codon 72 polymorphism 
is likely an important genetic factor contributing to susceptibility of POAG.
However, more case-controls studies based on larger sample size and stratified by
ethnicity are suggested to further clarify the relationship between p53 codon 72 
polymorphism and POAG.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.195002 
PMCID: PMC5168918
PMID: 27905339  [PubMed - in process]


260. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 Oct;64(10):737-742. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.195011.

Incidence of short-term complications and associated factors after primary
trabeculectomy in Chiang Mai University Hospital.

Leeungurasatien T(1), Khunsongkiet P(1), Pathanapitoon K(1), Wiwatwongwana D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University,
Chiang Mai, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: To determine the incidence of early postoperative complications and
associated factors after primary trabeculectomy in Thai glaucoma patients.
DESIGN: This was a retrospective observational study performed in Chiang Mai
University Hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred and eighteen glaucoma patients participated in the
study.
METHODS: All glaucoma patients underwent primary trabeculectomy with mitomycin C 
(MMC) using fornix-based conjunctival flap technique between December 2011 and
May 2013. Surgical complications during the first 3 months of follow-up were
recorded, and associated risk factors were analyzed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The incidence of posttrabeculectomy complications was the 
main outcome measure.
RESULTS: One hundred and eighteen eyes of 118 patients were included. Early
postoperative complications developed in 55 eyes (56.7%). Complications included 
hypotony (25 eyes, 27.2%), serous choroidal detachment (CD) (14 eyes, 15.6%),
subconjunctival hemorrhage (12 eyes, 13.0%), hyphema (11 eyes, 12.4%), bleb leak 
(8 eyes, 8.8%), encapsulated bleb (2 eyes, 2.2%), aqueous misdirection (1 eyes,
1.1%), corneal epithelial defect (1 eyes, 1.1%), and overfiltration (1 eyes,
1.1%). There were no reported cases of endophthalmitis or blebitis. Hypotony was 
associated with serous CD (P = 0.006), and hyphema was associated with
neovascular glaucoma (NVG) patients (P = 0.009). NVG was not associated with the 
increased rate of surgical failure (P = 0.083).
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of early complications after first-time trabeculectomy
with MMC was high (56.7%) in this Thai clinic setting, but most were transient
and self-limited conditions. The correlations between hypotony and CD as well as 
hyphema and NVG were compatible with the previous studies.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.195011 
PMCID: PMC5168914
PMID: 27905335  [PubMed - in process]


261. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 Oct;64(10):727-732. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.195000.

Effect of cataract surgery on intraocular pressure in supine and lateral
decubitus body postures.

Park JH(1), Yoo C(1), Song JS(1), Lin SC(2), Kim YY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul,
South Korea. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San
Francisco, California, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate the effect of phacoemulsification on intraocular pressure
(IOP) in different recumbent body postures including supine and lateral decubitus
(LD) positions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This prospective, observational study included patients
who had no glaucoma and who had planned to undergo phacoemulsification and
intraocular lens implantation in one eye. Before and 1 month after cataract
surgery, IOP was measured in both eyes using the Tono-Pen AVIA. We measured IOP
in the sitting, supine, and LD (with the operated eye placed on the lower side)
positions. IOP was measured 10 min after assuming each position in a randomized
sequence. The Wilcoxon signed-rank test was used to compare the IOP changes
before and 1 month after phacoemulsification in all postures.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients participated in this study. Postoperative IOP was
lower than the preoperative IOP when measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry
in the sitting position (13.8 ± 1.9 mmHg vs. 12.6 ± 2.1 mmHg, P = 0.007). The
postoperative IOP was lower than the preoperative IOP for the supine and LD
positions. The average IOP reduction of the operated eye was 0.6 mmHg, 1.7 mmHg, 
and 3.0 mmHg in the sitting, supine, and LD positions, respectively (sitting vs. 
supine, P = 0.048; sitting vs. LD, P = 0.001; supine vs. LD, P = 0.028). In the
nonoperated eye, IOP did not change significantly after surgery (all P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Cataract surgery lowered IOP in the sitting position as well as in
the supine and LD positions. Such postoperative IOP reductions were greater in
the recumbent positions than in the sitting position.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.195000 
PMCID: PMC5168912
PMID: 27905333  [PubMed - in process]


262. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 Oct;64(10):722-726. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.195007.

Publication rates from the All India Ophthalmic Conference 2010 compared to 2000:
Are we improving?

Kumaragurupari R(1), Sengupta S(2), Bhandari S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Library Services, Aravind Eye Hospital and Post Graduate Institute of
Ophthalmology, Madurai, Tamil Nadu, India. (2)Vitreoretina Services, Aravind Eye 
Hospital and Post Graduate Institute of Ophthalmology, Puducherry; Ojas Laser Eye
Surgery Center, Ojas Laser Eye Hospital, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.
(3)Vitreoretina Services, Aravind Eye Hospital and Post Graduate Institute of
Ophthalmology, Puducherry, India.

PURPOSE: To determine the publication rates of free papers and posters presented 
at the All India Ophthalmic Conference (AIOC) 2010 in peer-reviewed journals up
to December 2015 and compare this with publication rates from AIOC2000 published 
previously.
METHODS: A thorough literature search was conducted using PubMed, Google Scholar,
and the general Google search engine by two independent investigators. The title 
of the paper, keywords and author names were used to "match" the AIOC free-paper 
with the published paper. In addition, the "purpose," "methods," and "outcome
measures" between the two were studied to determine the "match."
RESULTS: A total of 58 out of 394 free-papers (14.7%) from AIOC2010 were
published till December 2015 compared to 16.5% from AIOC2000. Out of these, 52
(90%) were published in PubMed indexed journals. Maximum publications were seen
in pediatric ophthalmology (50%) followed by glaucoma (24.4%) and cornea (23.8%).
Fifteen out of 272 posters (5.5%) were published; orbit/oculoplastics had the
highest poster publications (13%). Excluding papers in nonindexed journals and
those by authors with international affiliations, the publication rate was
approximately 12%.
CONCLUSION: The publication rate of free papers from AIOC2010 has marginally
reduced compared to AIOC2000. Various causes for this such as lack of adequate
training, motivation, and lack of incentives for research in the Indian scenario 
have been explored, and measures to improve this paradigm have been discussed. It
will be prudent to repeat this exercise every decade to compare publication rates
between periodic AIOC, stimulate young minds for quality research and educate
policy makers toward the need for developing dedicated research departments
across the country.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.195007 
PMCID: PMC5168911
PMID: 27905332  [PubMed - in process]


263. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2016 Oct;64(10):715-721. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.195004.

Prevalent practice patterns in glaucoma: Poll of Indian ophthalmologists at a
national conference.

Choudhari NS(1), Pathak-Ray V(1), Kaushik S(2), Vyas P(3), George R(4).

Author information: 
(1)VST Glaucoma Centre, Dr. Kallam Anji Reddy Campus, L. V. Prasad Eye Institute,
Hyderabad, Telangana, India. (2)Advanced Eye Center, Postgraduate Institute of
Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India. (3)Centre for Sight, Indore,
Madhya Pradesh, India. (4)Department of Glaucoma, Jadhavbhai Nathamal Singhvi,
Medical Research Foundation, Sankara Nethralaya, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to explore and compare the prevailing practice 
patterns in the diagnosis and management of glaucoma among subspecialists and
general ophthalmologists in India.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is an interactive audience response system (ARS)
based poll of ophthalmologists attending the annual conference of the Glaucoma
Society of India in 2013.
RESULTS: The information was obtained from 379 ophthalmologists (146 glaucoma
specialists, 54 nonglaucoma subspecialists, and 179 general ophthalmologists).
The majority of polled ophthalmologists (236; 62%) had 10 or more years of
experience in ophthalmology. The glaucoma specialists differed from
nonglaucomatologists in their preference for Goldmann applanation tonometer (P < 
0.01), four-mirror gonioscope (P < 0.01), Humphrey perimeter (P < 0.01), laser
peripheral iridotomy in primary angle closure disease (P = 0.03), postiridotomy
gonioscopy (P < 0.01), and usage of antifibrotic agents during filtering surgery 
(P < 0.01). Optical coherence tomography was the most preferred imaging modality 
and was utilized more often by the subspecialists than general ophthalmologists. 
The ophthalmologists also differed in their choice of antiglaucoma medications.
More glaucoma specialists were performing surgery on children with congenital
glaucoma (P < 0.01), implanting glaucoma drainage devices (P < 0.01), and using
scientific journals to upgrade knowledge (P = 0.03) than the other
ophthalmologists.
CONCLUSIONS: This poll is the first of its kind in India, in its usage of the
ARS, and in comparing the practice patterns of care for glaucoma among
subspecialists and general ophthalmologists. It has revealed substantial
diversity in a few areas among those who did and did not receive specialty
training in glaucoma.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.195004 
PMCID: PMC5168910
PMID: 27905331  [PubMed - in process]


264. Neural Regen Res. 2016 Oct;11(10):1560-1563.

Neuro-rejuvenation for neuronal function.

Liu Y(1), Lee RK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami School of Medicine, Miami,
FL, USA.

Neurodegenerative eye diseases, such as glaucoma, cause irreversible vision loss 
in millions of patients worldwide, creating serious medical, economic and social 
issues. Like other mammalian central nervous system tracts, optic nerve
intrinsically lacks the capacity for axonal growth and its surrounding
environment is also non-permissive to regeneration. Any axonal damage also
triggers a vicious cycle of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death. Exploring methods 
that can enhance RGCs survival and promote axonal regeneration will not only
enable vision restoration for millions of patients, but also shed light on the
treatment of other neurodegenerative diseases. In this review article, we will go
through three current approaches to cure neurodegenerative eye diseases,
including cell based therapy, neuro-regeneration and neuro-rejuvenation.

DOI: 10.4103/1673-5374.193226 
PMCID: PMC5116826
PMID: 27904478  [PubMed - in process]


265. J Neurosurg. 2016 Dec;125(Suppl 1):58-63.

Microinvasive tumor endoresection in combination with ocular stereotactic
radiosurgery.

Sinyavskiy OA(1), Troyanovsky RL(1), Ivanov PI(2), Golovin AS(1), Tibilov AV(1), 
Solonina SN(1), Astapenko AM(1), Zubatkina IS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, St. Petersburg Regional Hospital, and.
(2)Department of Radiosurgery, Dr. Berezin Medical Centre, St. Petersburg,
Russia.

OBJECTIVE The use of Gamma Knife radiosurgery (GKRS) as monotherapy in the
treatment of uveal melanoma (UM) allows clinicians to achieve high local tumor
control with low recurrence but does not prevent secondary enucleation due to
glaucoma in cases of large tumors. The authors analyzed indications for tumor
endoresection (ER), the time interval between irradiation and surgery, and the
features and results of performing ER for UM after GKRS. METHODS Thirty-seven
patients between 28 and 78 years of age (16 male and 11 female patients) with UM 
underwent GKRS with a dose of 70 to 80 Gy that was applied to the center of the
tumor with complete immobilization of the eye during the procedure. Tumor
resection with histological investigation was performed in 24 eyes (transscleral 
resection was performed in 3 eyes, and ER was performed in 21 eyes) at 3 to 97
days after GKRS, mainly during the first 2 or 3 weeks. As a rule, ER (21 eyes)
was performed to treat large, centrally localized, or equatorial UMs with
exudative macula-on retinal detachment that reduced vision. The average tumor
height was 8.9 mm, and the average width was 13.7 mm at the base. ER for UM
included phacoemulsification, microinvasive vitrectomy with transretinal tumor
resection, laser photocoagulation, and application of a temporary silicone oil
tamponade. Seven patients received intraocular injections of inhibitors of
angiogenesis for the prevention and treatment of radiation neuroretinopathy. The 
follow-up period ranged from 8 to 41 months. RESULTS Preservation of the eyes
without tumor recurrence was achieved in all 37 patients after GKRS (monotherapy 
and combined therapy). One patient died of liver metastases at 21 months after
GKRS. In the ER group (21 eyes), drug-resistant glaucoma with low visual acuity
appeared in 4 eyes (19%) with long-existing total exudative retinal detachment
and delayed operations. Severe radiation neuroretinopathy with macular edema
occurred in 4 of 21 cases (19%). Intraocular injections of inhibitors of
angiogenesis significantly decreased retinal edema. Residual rhegmatogenous
retinal detachment was revealed in 1 eye (4.8%). The conservation of the
patient's primary vision or its improvement were observed in 11 eyes (52.4%).
Useful vision more than 0.1 was achieved in 12 cases (57%), and more than 0.3 was
achieved in 8 cases (38%). CONCLUSIONS As a result of this research, ER for UM
after GKRS proved to be an effective method of combined eye-conserving treatment 
for large centrally localized or equatorial tumors at high risk of the emergence 
and development of toxic tumor syndrome. Perfect eye immobilization, timely ER,
and multiple intraocular injections of inhibitors of angiogenesis saved not only 
the eye in all cases, but also useful vision in many cases. Close cooperation
among radiosurgeons, ophthalmologists, and vitreoretinal surgeons is the key to
effective treatment.

DOI: 10.3171/2016.7.GKS161550 
PMID: 27903184  [PubMed - in process]


266. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2016 Nov 11. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.001642. [Epub ahead 
of print]

One freshwater Cyclidium species, C. sinicum spec. nov. (Protozoa; Ciliophora),
with an improved diagnosis of the genus Cyclidium.

Pan X(1), Liang C(2), Wang C(3), Warren A(4), Mu W(5), Chen H(6), Yu L(7), Chen
Y(8).

Author information: 
(1)1Harbin Normal University. (2)2Harbin normal university. (3)3Ocean university 
of China. (4)4Department of Life Sciences, Natural History Museum, London SW7
5BD, UK. (5)5College of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Normal University,
Harbin 150025, China. (6)6College of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Normal
University, Harbin 150025, China. (7)7College of Life Science and Technology,
Harbin Normal University, Harbin 150025, China. (8)8Harbin normal university.

The morphology and infraciliature of one freshwater ciliate, Cyclidium sinicum
spec. nov., isolated from a farmland pond in Harbin, northeastern China, was
investigated using living observation and silver staining methods. Cyclidium
sinicum spec. nov. is distinguished by the following features: body approximately
20-25 × 10-15 μm in vivo; buccal field about 45-50 % of body length; 11 somatic
kineties; somatic kinety n terminating sub-caudally; two macronuclei and one
micronucleus; M1 almost as long as M2; M2 triangle-shaped. The genus Cyclidium is
re-defined as follows: body outline usually oval or elliptical, ventral side
concave, dorsal side convex; single caudal cilium; contractile vacuole posterior 
terminal; adoral membranelles usually not separated; paroral membrane "L"-shaped,
with anterior end terminating at the level of anterior end of M1; somatic
kineties longitudinally arranged and continuous. Phylogenetic trees based on the 
SSU rDNA sequences show that C. sinicum spec. nov. clusters with the type
species, C. glaucoma, with full support. Cyclidium is not monophyletic with
members of the clade of Cyclidium + Protocyclidium + Ancistrum + Boveria.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.001642 
PMID: 27902323  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


267. Chin Med J (Engl). 2016 5th Dec;129(23):2810-2815. doi: 10.4103/0366-6999.194641.

Identification of Mutations in Myocilin and Beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase 3
Genes in a Chinese Family with Primary Open-angle Glaucoma.

Liao RF(1), Zhong ZL(2), Ye MJ(3), Han LY(2), Ye DQ(4), Chen JJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Anhui
Medical University; Department of Ophthalmology, The First Affiliated Hospital of
Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui 230032, China. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology of Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital and Tongji Eye Institute,
Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200092, China. (3)Department of
Ophthalmology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical University, Hefei, 
Anhui 230032, China. (4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of
Public Health, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui 230032, China.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is a major cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. There 
is evidence showing that a subset of the disease is genetically determined. In
this study, we screened for mutations in chromosome 1q-linked open-angle glaucoma
(GLC1A) in a Chinese family with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: A total of 23 members from five generations of a family were enrolled
and underwent thorough ophthalmologic examinations. In addition, 200 unrelated
healthy Chinese controls were also recruited as normal control. GLC1A gene was
amplified by polymerase chain reaction, and DNA sequencing was performed to
screen for mutations.
RESULTS: Six members were diagnosed as POAG, with severe clinical manifestations,
and history of high intraocular pressures. The mean age of disease onset was 26.3
years. However, the others were asymptomatic. In six affected and three
asymptomatic members, gene sequencing revealed a mutation c.C1456T in exon 3 of
myocilin gene (MYOC). Furthermore, we also identified a novel mutation c.G322A in
beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase 3 (B4GALT3) gene in all six affected and three
asymptomatic members, which was not reported previously in POAG patients. The two
newly identified variants were absent in other family members as well as
controls.
CONCLUSION: The mutations c.1456C < T (p.L486F) in MYOC and c.322G < A (p.V108I) 
in B4GALT3 are likely responsible for the pathogenesis of POAG in this family.

DOI: 10.4103/0366-6999.194641 
PMCID: PMC5146788
PMID: 27900994  [PubMed - in process]


268. Br J Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 29. pii: bjophthalmol-2016-309377. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309377. [Epub ahead of print]

Diagnostic ability of peripapillary vessel density measurements of optical
coherence tomography angiography in primary open-angle and angle-closure
glaucoma.

Rao HL(1), Kadambi SV(1), Weinreb RN(2), Puttaiah NK(1), Pradhan ZS(1), Rao
DA(1), Kumar RS(1), Webers CA(3), Shetty R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Narayana Nethralaya, Rajajinagar, Bangalore, India. (2)Shiley Eye Institute,
Hamilton Glaucoma Center and Department of Ophthalmology, University of
California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California, USA.
(3)University Eye Clinic Maastricht, University Medical Center, Maastricht, The
Netherlands.

AIMS: To evaluate the diagnostic ability of peripapillary vessel density
measurements on optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) in primary
open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG), and to
compare these with peripapillary retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) thickness
measurements.
METHODS: In a cross-sectional study, 48 eyes of 33 healthy control subjects, 63
eyes of 39 patients with POAG and 49 eyes of 32 patients with PACG underwent OCTA
(RTVue-XR, Optovue, Fremont, California, USA) and RNFL imaging with spectral
domain OCT. Diagnostic abilities of vessel density and RNFL parameters were
evaluated using area under receiver operating characteristic curves (AUC) and
sensitivities at fixed specificities.
RESULTS: AUCs of peripapillary vessel density ranged between 0.48 for the
temporal sector and 0.88 for the inferotemporal sector in POAG. The same in PACG 
ranged between 0.57 and 0.86. Sensitivities at 95% specificity ranged from 13% to
70% in POAG, and from 10% to 67% in PACG. AUCs of peripapillary RNFL thickness
ranged between 0.51 for the temporal sector and 0.91 for the inferonasal sector
in POAG. The same in PACG ranged between 0.61 and 0.87. Sensitivities at 95%
specificity ranged from 8% to 68% in POAG, and from 2% to 67% in PACG. AUCs of
all peripapillary vessel density measurements were comparable (p>0.05) to the
corresponding RNFL thickness measurements in both POAG and PACG.
CONCLUSIONS: Diagnostic ability of peripapillary vessel density parameters of
OCTA, especially the inferotemporal sector measurement, was good in POAG and
PACG. Diagnostic abilities of vessel density measurements were comparable to RNFL
measurements in both POAG and PACG.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309377 
PMID: 27899368  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


269. PLoS One. 2016 Nov 29;11(11):e0166943. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166943.
eCollection 2016.

Risk Factors for Motor Vehicle Collisions in Patients with Primary Open-Angle
Glaucoma: A Multicenter Prospective Cohort Study.

Yuki K(1), Awano-Tanabe S(1), Ono T(1), Shiba D(1), Murata H(2), Asaoka R(2),
Tsubota K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, the University of Tokyo, Graduate School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To identify the incidence rate of motor vehicle collisions (MVCs) in
patients with no ocular pathology other than primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)
and determine the putative risk factors for MVCs in this group of patients.
METHODS: We designed a prospective cohort study across three centers utilizing a 
consecutive sampling method to identify all patients with POAG between the ages
of 40 and 80 years old. Patients with glaucoma were consecutively screened for
eligibility. All study participants answered a questionnaire about motor vehicle 
collisions at baseline, and answered the questionnaire again every 12 months (± 1
month) after baseline for three years. A binocular integrated visual field was
calculated for each patient by merging a patient's monocular Humphrey Field
Analyzer (HFA) visual fields (VFs), using the 'best sensitivity' method. Patients
with incident MVCs were defined as the "MVC+" group and patients without incident
MVCs were defined as the "MVC-" group. Adjusted odds ratios for the incidence of 
MVCs were estimated with a logistic regression model.
RESULTS: One hundred and ninety-one Japanese POAG patients were analyzed in this 
study. The age of the participants was 63.7 ± 10.2 [mean ± standard deviation]. A
total of 28 participants experienced a MVC during the follow up period of three
years (4.9% per year). Ten patients (5.2%) experienced a MVC in the first year,
13 patients (6.8%) in the second year, and 11 patients (5.8%) in the third year
(some patients experienced multiple MVCs over different years). Best corrected
visual acuity in the worst eye was significantly worse in the MVC+ group (0.03 ± 
0.01, mean ± standard deviation, LogMar) compared with the MVC- group (0.01 ±
0.003, p = 0.01), and was the only variable identified as a significant predictor
of future MVCs in the multiple logistic regression model [odds ratio: 1.2, 95%
confidence interval (CI): 1.1 to 1.4].
CONCLUSION: Deterioration in visual acuity in the worst eye is a risk factor for 
future MVCs in patients with POAG.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166943 
PMCID: PMC5127526
PMID: 27898724  [PubMed - in process]


270. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec;25(12):963-967.

Resident Compliance With the American Academy of Ophthalmology Preferred Practice
Patterns for Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma Suspect.

Mihlstin M(1), Juzych MS, Kromrei HT, Hwang FS, Yin J.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Kresge Eye Institute, School of Medicine, Wayne 
State University†Detroit Medical Center, Detroit Education and Research, Detroit,
MI‡Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA.

PURPOSE: To study resident compliance with the American Academy of Ophthalmology 
(AAO) Preferred Practice Patterns (PPPs) for primary open-angle glaucoma suspect 
(POAGS) in a resident ophthalmology clinic.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hundred charts were selected for analysis of adult
patients with the International Classification of Diseases diagnosis code for
POAGS during their initial visit between November 2, 2010 and May 6, 2014 at the 
Kresge Eye Institute resident clinic. Electronic medical records of clinic visits
for POAGS patients were evaluated for documentation and compliance with 17
elements of AAO PPPs.
RESULTS: The overall mean compliance was 73.8% for all charts (n=200), 74.4% for 
first-year residents (n=53), 74.5% for second-year residents (n=38), and 73.3%
for third-year residents (n=109). Documentation rates were high (>90%) for 9
elements, which included most elements of physical examination and history.
Documentation of ocular history, central corneal thickness, gonioscopy, optic
nerve head and retinal nerve fiber layer analysis, and visual field ranged from
40% to 80%. Documentation was lowest for patient education elements which ranged 
from 0% to 10%. Compliance was not significantly different (P>0.05) between
residents or between different resident years for any element.
CONCLUSIONS: Residents' compliance was high for most elements of the PPPs for
POAGS. We identified elements with poor compliance especially regarding patient
education. Adherence to AAO PPPs can be a helpful method of assessing resident
performance.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000548 
PMID: 27898580  [PubMed - in process]


271. J Glaucoma. 2016 Dec;25(12):959-962.

Carotid Arterial Flow in Pseudoexfoliation Glaucoma and its Role in Diagnosing
the Disease.

Uz B(1), Durum Y, Kocatürk T, Dayanir YO, Dayanir V, Bilgen M.

Author information: 
(1)*Dogus Hospital, AkhisarDepartments of †Radiology‡Ophthalmology§Biophysics,
Medical Faculty, Adnan Menderes University, Aydin, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY: The objective of the study was to investigate the change 
in carotid arterial flow in pseudoexfoliation glaucoma (XFG) for determining its 
diagnostic value.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with XFG (N=30) and control subjects (N=22) were 
recruited. Common carotid artery (CCA) and internal carotid artery of each
participant were examined using color Doppler and B-mode ultrasonography.
Resistivity index (RI), as a flow parameter of interest, was measured and
statistically compared between the 2 groups. Receiver operating characteristic
was also produced to assess its diagnostic value.
RESULTS: The measured RI values from the controls were within the expected range.
Among CCA and internal carotid artery, only RI of CCA exhibited statistically
significant changes in XFG (0.75±0.04 vs. 0.70±0.03 cm/s). Threshold value of
RI=0.72 yielded 90% sensitivity and 73% specificity in distinguishing the cases
of XFG from the controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Flow dynamics of carotid arterial system exhibits different
characteristics in individuals with XFG than controls. Such differences may serve
as a basis for developing potentially new diagnostic biomarkers of XFG. Further
studies are justified for examining the carotid flow in pseudoexfoliation
syndrome and compare it against XFG for determining its power in differential
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0000000000000546 
PMID: 27898579  [PubMed - in process]


272. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2016 Dec 7. [Epub ahead of print]

Green disease in optical coherence tomography diagnosis of glaucoma.

Sayed MS(1), Margolis M, Lee RK.

Author information: 
(1)aBascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, Florida bCurrent Address: Fillmore Eye Clinic, Alamogordo, New Mexico,
USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Optical coherence tomography (OCT) has become an integral
component of modern glaucoma practice. Utilizing color codes, OCT analysis has
rendered glaucoma diagnosis and follow-up simpler and faster for the busy
clinician. However, green labeling of OCT parameters suggesting normal values may
confer a false sense of security, potentially leading to missed diagnoses of
glaucoma and/or glaucoma progression.
RECENT FINDINGS: Conditions in which OCT color coding may be falsely negative
(i.e., green disease) are identified. Early glaucoma in which retinal nerve fiber
layer (RNFL) thickness and optic disc parameters, albeit labeled green, are
asymmetric in both eyes may result in glaucoma being undetected. Progressively
decreasing RNFL thickness may reveal the presence of progressive glaucoma that,
because of green labeling, can be missed by the clinician. Other ocular
conditions that can increase RNFL thickness can make the diagnosis of coexisting 
glaucoma difficult. Recently introduced progression analysis features of OCT may 
help detect green disease.
SUMMARY: Recognition of green disease is of paramount importance in diagnosing
and treating glaucoma. Understanding the limitations of imaging technologies
coupled with evaluation of serial OCT analyses, prompt clinical examination, and 
structure-function correlation is important to avoid missing real glaucoma
requiring treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000353 
PMID: 27898471  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


273. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 25. [Epub ahead of print]

Lamina cribrosa in glaucoma.

Downs JC(1), Girkin CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Alabama at Birmingham School of
Medicine, Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This article presents, summarizes, and interprets the most
recent advances in the study and understanding of the lamina cribrosa in
glaucoma, in the context of previous work.
RECENT FINDINGS: The lamina is an active living structure that responds to strain
by changing morphology at the micro-scale and macro-scale in glaucoma. Changes in
lamina cribrosa morphology in glaucoma include posteriorization of the laminar
insertion into the sclera, increased cupping or depth of the lamina cribrosa, and
the development of focal lamina cribrosa defects. These lamina cribrosa changes
are associated with disk hemorrhages and visual field damage, and are detectable 
with clinical imaging techniques such as optical coherence tomography.
Glaucomatous changes in the lamina cribrosa are thought to be driven by cellular 
processes mediated by focal cyclical mechanical strain. Strain is eye specific
and mediated by intraocular pressure, cerebrospinal fluid pressure, scleral and
lamina cribrosa morphology, and structural stiffness; deleterious lamina cribrosa
strains can occur at all levels of mean intraocular pressure.
SUMMARY: Laminar morphology is ever changing in health and disease, and recent
studies have identified several promising morphological changes that are
indicative of glaucoma susceptibility, onset, and progression.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000354 
PMID: 27898470  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


274. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 25. [Epub ahead of print]

Update on pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma.

Okafor K(1), Vinod K, Gedde SJ.

Author information: 
(1)aBascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami, Miller School of Medicine, 
Miami, FL bNew York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai and Icahn School of
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The present article reviews the clinical features and
pathogenesis of pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma and provides 
an update regarding their diagnosis and management.
RECENT FINDINGS: Newer imaging modalities including ultrasound biomicroscopy and 
anterior segment optical coherence tomography facilitate visualization of the
iris concavity characteristic of eyes with pigment dispersion syndrome and
pigmentary glaucoma. Patients with pigmentary glaucoma may be distinguished from 
those with other glaucoma types by the presence of typical symptoms, personality 
type, and patterns of diurnal intraocular pressure fluctuation. Although laser
iridotomy has been shown to alter iris anatomy in pigmentary glaucoma, it is not 
proven to slow visual field progression. Multiple trials have validated the
safety and efficacy of filtering surgery in treating pigmentary glaucoma, with
fewer studies published on the role of micro-invasive glaucoma surgery.
SUMMARY: Literature from the review period has further defined the unique
clinical characteristics of pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma. 
Laser surgery has a limited role in the management of these entities, whereas
trabeculectomy remains an acceptable first-line surgical treatment. Further
studies are needed to define the potential application of the newer
micro-invasive glaucoma procedures in pigmentary glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000352 
PMID: 27898469  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


275. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 25. [Epub ahead of print]

Update on ciliary body laser procedures.

Amoozgar B(1), Phan EN, Lin SC, Han Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco,
California, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: There are currently various options available for glaucoma
treatment procedures ranging from laser to penetrating to nonpenetrating
surgeries. Innovations in glaucoma surgical therapeutics include features such as
external application, focused tissue effects, and minimal manipulation as these
factors all help lower the risk of side-effects in addition to increasing the
success rate of the treatment. Traditional diode laser transscleral
cyclophotocoagulation (TSCPC) is invasive and destructive. This review aims to
provide an overview of the latest ciliary body laser modalities, including
micropulse diode laser transscleral cyclophotocoagulation (MP-TSCPC), as well as 
endoscopic cyclophotocoagulation.
RECENT FINDINGS: MP-TSCPC and endoscopic cyclophotocoagulation, less invasive
interventional procedures than filtering surgeries, have shown promise in having 
reduced postoperative complications while demonstrating reasonably good success
rates. These modalities allow direct effects to the inflow system of the eye. The
precision of these interventions has led to comparable or greater control of
intraocular pressure (IOP) and lower inflammatory-fibrotic response in comparison
to conventional TSCPC. Recent studies of these procedures have focused on their
repeatability, long-term survival rate, and ability to be combined with cataract 
surgery.
SUMMARY: The development of new minimally invasive surgical modalities such as
MP-TSCPC and endoscopic cyclophotocoagulation has provided new options for
treating glaucoma with a relatively safe side-effects profile as compared with
filtration surgeries. These new treatments can lead to a significant decline in
the number of postsurgical medications needed for IOP control.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000351 
PMID: 27898468  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


276. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 25. [Epub ahead of print]

An update on therapeutic modalities for the prevention of angle closure glaucoma.

Amoozgar B(1), Moghimi S, Han Y, Lin SC.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco,
California, USA bFarabi Eye Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Angle closure glaucoma is a prominent burden for the worldwide
health system. Because this disorder is commonly asymptomatic, and can lead to
irreversible blindness, the proper screening and early management of this disease
can be critical. The definitions of angle closure and consequently its treatment 
guidelines have been dynamically modified and updated in the past decades.
Surgical and laser techniques have been adapted to address the different
mechanisms involved in the manifestation of the disease and properly prevent its 
progression in different stages. In this review, we will assess the most recent
techniques and their indications in the prevention and management of angle
closure disorders.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent trends in surgical and laser procedures in the management
of angle closure glaucoma are often geared toward combination strategies, to
target different mechanisms. Targeting the lens and the angle structures and
adjacent tissues simultaneously may be a promising approach in both the
prevention of further angle closure, modulating the pressure, and prevention of
cataract progression.
SUMMARY: Modifying your therapeutic modalities and thresholds for treatment based
on updated angle closure disorder definitions and guidelines, as well as
innovative screening techniques, may be beneficial to your patients, in regards
to both prevention and reduction of disease progression.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000350 
PMID: 27898467  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


277. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 25. [Epub ahead of print]

Genetics and genetic testing for glaucoma.

Miller MA(1), Fingert JH, Bettis DI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Iowa Hospitals 
and Clinics, Iowa City, Iowa, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: In recent decades, investigators have identified numerous
genes and genetic factors that cause or contribute risk for glaucoma. These
findings have increased our understanding of disease mechanisms, provided us with
new diagnostic tools, and may allow for development of improved therapies for
glaucoma. However, genetic testing is most useful when it is reserved for
appropriate patients. The purpose of this article is to review key points and
recent developments regarding the genetics and genetic testing for glaucoma and
to provide recommendations for when genetic testing may be warranted.
RECENT FINDINGS: Large genome-wide association studies have identified multiple
new susceptibility loci associated with primary open angle glaucoma and primary
angle closure glaucoma.
SUMMARY: Several glaucoma-causing genes and genetic risk factors for glaucoma
have been discovered. As a result, there are specific clinical scenarios in which
genetic testing is warranted. In select cases (i.e., familial juvenile open angle
glaucoma), genetic testing can serve as a powerful tool to improve diagnostic
accuracy, efficiency of disease surveillance, and selection of treatment,
enabling physicians to better optimize care for their patients.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000344 
PMID: 27898466  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


278. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2016 Nov/Dec;5(6):415-423.

Pathologic Myopia.

Ohno-Matsui K(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Tokyo Medical and
Dental University, Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Pathologic myopia (PM) is the only myopia that causes the loss of best-corrected 
visual acuity. The main reason for best-corrected visual acuity loss is
complications specific to PM, such as myopic maculopathy, myopic traction
maculopathy, and myopic optic neuropathy (or glaucoma). The meta-analyses of the 
PM study group (META-PM study) made a classification system for myopic
maculopathy. On the basis of this study, PM has been defined as eyes having
atrophic changes equal to or more severe than diffuse atrophy. Posterior
staphyloma and eye deformity are important causes of developing
vision-threatening complications. Posterior staphyloma is unique to PM, except
for inferior staphyloma due to tilted disc syndrome. It is defined as an
outpouching of the wall of the eye that has a radius of curvature that is less
than the surrounding curvature of the wall of the eye. The mechanical load onto
the important region for central vision (optic nerve and macula) is not
comparable between eyes with and without posterior staphyloma. Three-dimensional 
magnetic resonance imaging is a powerful tool to analyze the entire shape of the 
eye. When ultra-widefield optical coherence tomography is available, it is
expected to be a new tool that will surpass 3-dimensional magnetic resonance
imaging. In the future, preventive therapies targeting staphyloma and eye
deformity are expected before vision-threatening complications develop and it is 
too late for patients.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000230 
PMID: 27898445  [PubMed - in process]


279. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2016 Nov/Dec;5(6):386-393.

Epidemiology of Myopia.

Wu PC(1), Huang HM, Yu HJ, Fang PC, Chen CT.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, Republic of China.

Myopia is not a simple refractive error, but an eyesight-threatening disease.
There is a high prevalence of myopia, 80% to 90%, in young adults in East Asia;
myopia has become the leading cause of blindness in this area. As the myopic
population increases globally, the severity of its impact is predicted.
Approximately one fifth of the myopic population has high myopia (≥-6 diopters), 
which results in irreversible vision loss such as retinal detachment, choroidal
neovascularization, cataracts, glaucoma, and macular atrophy. The increasing
prevalence of school myopia in the past few decades may be a result of
gene-environment interactions. However, earlier school myopia onset would
accompany faster myopia progression and greater risk of high myopia later in
life. Recently, there have been effective interventions to delay the onset of
myopia, such as outdoor activity and decreasing the duration of near work.
Hyperopia (≤0.5 diopters) is a predictor of myopia. Pharmacological agents and
optic interventions such as low-concentration atropine and orthokeratology may
slow progression in myopic children. Novel surgeries and anti-vascular
endothelial growth factor drugs could deal with some myopic complications. From
available evidence, the prevention, control, and treatment of myopia seem to be
promising. However, to reduce the impact of myopia in future decades, more work
and effort are still needed, including that by governments and intercountry eye
health organizations.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000236 
PMID: 27898441  [PubMed - in process]


280. Curr Eye Res. 2016 Nov 29:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Diagnostic Ability of Automated Pupillography in Glaucoma.

Rao HL(1), Kadambi SV(1), Mehta P(1), Dasari S(1), Puttaiah NK(1), Pradhan ZS(1),
Rao DA(1), Shetty R(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Glaucoma, Narayana Nethralaya, Rajajinagar , Bangalore ,
Karnataka , India.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the diagnostic ability of automated pupillography
measurements in glaucoma and study the effect of inter-eye asymmetry in
glaucomatous damage on the diagnostic ability.
METHODS: In an observational, cross-sectional study, 47 glaucoma patients and 42 
control subjects underwent automated pupillography using a commercially available
device. Diagnostic abilities of the pupillary response measurements were
evaluated using area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves (AUC)
and sensitivities at fixed specificities. Influence of inter-eye asymmetry in
glaucoma [inter-eye mean deviation (MD) difference on visual fields (VF)] on the 
diagnostic ability of pupillography parameters was evaluated by ROC regression
approach.
RESULTS: The AUCs of automated pupillography parameters ranged from 0.60
(amplitude score with peripheral blue stimulus) to 0.82 (amplitude score with
full field white stimulus, Amp-FF-W). Sensitivity at 95% specificity ranged
between 5% (amplitude score with full field blue stimulus) and 45% (amplitude
score with full field green stimulus). Inter-eye MD difference significantly
affected the diagnostic performance of automated pupillography parameters (p <
0.05). AUCs of Amp-FF-W at inter-eye MD difference of 0 dB, 5 dB, 10 dB and 15 dB
were 0.71, 0.80, 0.87 and 0.93, respectively, according to the regression model. 
The corresponding sensitivities at 95% specificity were 20%, 34%, 50% and 66%,
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnostic abilities of even the best automated pupillography
parameters were only moderate in glaucoma. The performance of these pupillography
measurements in detecting glaucoma significantly increased with greater inter-eye
asymmetry in the glaucomatous damage.

DOI: 10.1080/02713683.2016.1238944 
PMID: 27897448  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


281. Curr Pharm Des. 2016 Nov 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Glaucoma: Hot topics in Pharmacology.

Balendra SI, Shah PA, Jain M, Grzybowski A, Cordeiro MF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma and Retinal Neurodegeneration Group, Department of Visual
Neuroscience, UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, London, United Kingdom.
m.cordeiro@ucl.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma comprises a group of neurodegenerative diseases resulting in
retinal ganglion cell death within the optic nerve head. It is projected to
affect almost 80 million people worldwide by 2020. The condition's asymptomatic
nature translates to over half of glaucoma sufferers being unaware of their
condition. By the time of diagnosis, irreversible blindness is likely to have
occurred. Prime areas of glaucoma research therefore include identification and
optimization of risk factors for the disease, accurate and early diagnostic tools
and novel therapeutic methods.
METHODS: The goal of this review was to summarize main areas of latest glaucoma
research into risk factors of glaucoma, diagnostic tools and treatments. PubMed
was used to search for terms including glaucoma risk factors, glaucoma
diagnostics, glaucoma treatment, glaucoma drug delivery and glaucoma IOP.
RESULTS: The evidence for risk factors of low CSF pressure, IOP, smoking,
vascular risk factors and light toxicity is described. Latest diagnostic and
monitoring techniques for glaucoma include SD-OCT, DARC and IOP telemetry.
Current and emerging medical and surgical treatments in glaucoma are discussed.
Rho kinase inhibitors have the potential to both lower IOP and also provide
neuroprotection, several of which are in clinical trials. Several other new
medical treatments such as calcium channel blockers and neurotrophic agents also 
have the capacity to provide neuroprotection. Minimally Invasive Glaucoma Surgery
(MIGS) devices provide an improved safety profile compared to traditional
trabeculectomy; the latest ab interno and ab externo devices are described. Novel
drug delivery methods, including punctual plugs and contact lenses, help overcome
the challenges with patient adherence.
CONCLUSION: The ultimate goals are to reduce the individual patient risk factors 
associated with glaucoma, diagnose the condition early and to find treatments
that not only reduce IOP but also reverse neurodegeneration of RGCs. The usage of
combinations of novel medical and surgical treatments may help maximize IOP
reduction and neuroprotection.


PMID: 27897119  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


282. Curr Pharm Des. 2016 Nov 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Smoking and Eye Pathologies. A systemic review. Part I. Anterior eye segment
pathologies.

Nita M, Grzybowski A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jozef Strus Poznan City Hospital, Department of Ophthalmology, 3 Szwajcarska
St, 361-285 Poznań, Poland. ae.grzybowski@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Tobacco smoking has detrimental influence on human health and is one 
of the leading causes of preventable mortality worldwide, associated with lung
cancer, chronic obstructive lung disease and cardiovascular disease.
AIM: The analysis of the influence of tobacco smoking on pathology of the
anterior segment of the eye in adults and children.
METHODS: A comprehensive review of the literature performed through MEDLINE and
PubMed searches, was published during the period 2000-2016.
RESULTS: In adults, tobacco smoking is associated with hyperopia, delayed corneal
epithelial healing and progression of Fuchs' endothelial corneal dystrophy.
Smoking is a strong risk factor for age-related nuclear cataract. However,
smoking is not associated with pterygium, and its influence on dry eye symptoms, 
central corneal thickness and progression of primary open glaucoma remains
controversial. Smoking during pregnancy increases risk of convergent or divergent
strabismus or poor stereo acuity, however, its influence on anophtalmia,
microphtalmia, amblyopia and hyperopic refractive error is controversial.
CONCLUSIONS: Tobacco smoking plays an important role in the pathogenesis of many 
diseases of anterior eye segment leading to visual impairment in adults and
children.


PMID: 27897118  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


283. Mol Genet Genomic Med. 2016 Oct 3;4(6):624-633. eCollection 2016.

Rare variants in optic disc area gene CARD10 enriched in primary open-angle
glaucoma.

Zhou T(1), Souzeau E(1), Sharma S(1), Siggs OM(1), Goldberg I(2), Healey PR(3),
Graham S(3), Hewitt AW(4), Mackey DA(5), Casson RJ(6), Landers J(1), Mills R(1), 
Ellis J(7), Leo P(7), Brown MA(7), MacGregor S(8), Burdon KP(9), Craig JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Flinders University Adelaide SA Australia.
(2)Discipline of OphthalmologyUniversity of SydneySydneyNSWAustralia; Glaucoma
UnitSydney Eye HospitalSydneyNSWAustralia. (3)Discipline of Ophthalmology
University of Sydney Sydney NSW Australia. (4)Menzies Institute for Medical
Research University of Tasmania Hobart TAS Australia. (5)Centre for Ophthalmology
and Visual Science Lions Eye Institute University of Western Australia Perth WA
Australia. (6)Discipline of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences University of
Adelaide Adelaide SA Australia. (7)Diamantina Institute Translational Research
Institute Princess Alexandra Hospital University of Queensland Woolloongabba QLD 
Australia. (8)Statistical Genetics QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute
Royal Brisbane Hospital Brisbane QLD Australia. (9)Department of
OphthalmologyFlinders UniversityAdelaideSAAustralia; Menzies Institute for
Medical ResearchUniversity of TasmaniaHobartTASAustralia.

BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified association of
common alleles with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and its quantitative
endophenotypes near numerous genes. This study aims to determine whether rare
pathogenic variants in these disease-associated genes contribute to POAG.
METHODS: Participants fulfilled strict inclusion criteria of advanced POAG at a
young age of diagnosis. Myocilin mutation carriers were excluded using direct
sequencing. Whole exome sequencing was performed on 187 glaucoma cases and 103
local screened nonglaucoma controls then joint-called with exomes of 993
previously sequenced Australian controls. GWAS-associated genes were assessed for
enrichment of rare predicted pathogenic variants in POAG. Significantly enriched 
genes were compared against Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC) public control.
RESULTS: Eighty-six GWAS disease or trait-associated glaucoma genes were captured
and sequenced. CARD10 showed enrichment after Bonferroni correction for rare
variants in glaucoma cases (OR = 13.2, P = 6.94 × 10(-5)) with mutations
identified in 4.28% of our POAG cohort compared to 0.27% in controls. CARD10 was 
significantly associated with optic disc parameters in previous GWAS. The whole
GWAS gene set showed no enrichment in POAG overall (OR = 1.12, P = 0.51).
CONCLUSION: We report here an enrichment of rare predicted pathogenic coding
variants within a GWAS-associated locus in POAG (CARD10). These findings indicate
that both common and rare pathogenic coding variants in CARD10 may contribute to 
POAG pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.248 
PMCID: PMC5118207
PMID: 27896285  [PubMed - in process]


284. J Ophthalmol. 2016;2016:6509809. Epub 2016 Nov 8.

Medical Management of Glaucoma in the 21st Century from a Canadian Perspective.

Harasymowycz P(1), Birt C(2), Gooi P(3), Heckler L(1), Hutnik C(4), Jinapriya
D(5), Shuba L(6), Yan D(2), Day R(7).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada. (2)University of Toronto,
Toronto, ON, Canada. (3)University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada. (4)Western
University, London, ON, Canada. (5)Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada.
(6)Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada. (7)SNELL Medical Communication
Inc., Montreal, QC, Canada.

Glaucoma is a medical term describing a group of progressive optic neuropathies
characterized by degeneration of retinal ganglion cells and retinal nerve fibre
layer and resulting in changes in the optic nerve head. Glaucoma is a leading
cause of irreversible vision loss worldwide. With the aging population it is
expected that the prevalence of glaucoma will continue to increase. Despite
recent advances in imaging and visual field testing techniques that allow
establishment of earlier diagnosis and treatment initiation, significant numbers 
of glaucoma patients are undiagnosed and present late in the course of their
disease. This can lead to irreversible vision loss, reduced quality of life, and 
a higher socioeconomic burden. Selection of therapeutic approaches for glaucoma
should be based on careful ocular examination, patient medical history, presence 
of comorbidities, and awareness of concomitant systemic therapies. Therapy should
also be individualized to patients' needs and preferences. Recent developments in
this therapeutic field require revisiting treatment algorithms and integration of
traditional and novel approaches in order to ensure optimal visual outcomes. This
article provides an overview of recent developments and practice trends in the
medical management of glaucoma in Canada. A discussion of the surgical management
is beyond the scope of this paper.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/6509809 
PMCID: PMC5118538
PMID: 27895937  [PubMed - in process]


285. Int J Retina Vitreous. 2016 Nov 14;2:26. eCollection 2016.

Neovascular glaucoma: a review.

Rodrigues GB(1), Abe RY(1), Zangalli C(1), Sodre SL(1), Donini FA(1), Costa
DC(1), Leite A(1), Felix JP(1), Torigoe M(1), Diniz-Filho A(2), de Almeida HG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculdade de Ciências Médicas - UNICAMP,
University of Campinas, Caixa Postal - 6111, Campinas, SP 13083-970 Brazil.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Otorhinolaryngology, Federal University of
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

Neovascular glaucoma (NVG) is a secondary glaucoma generally associated with poor
visual prognosis. The development of new vessels over the iris and the
iridocorneal angle can obstruct aqueous humor outflow and lead to increased
intraocular pressure. The underlying pathogenesis in most cases is posterior
segment ischemia, which is most commonly secondary to proliferative diabetic
retinopathy or central vein retinal occlusion. The neovascularization process in 
the eye is driven by the events that alter the homeostatic balance between
pro-angiogenic factors, such as the vascular endothelial growth factor and
anti-angiogenic factors, such as the pigment-epithelium-derived factor. Early
diagnosis of this condition through slit lamp examination of the iris,
iridocorneal angle and retina can help to avoid the development of goniosynechia 
and obstruction of aqueous humor outflow, with consequent intraocular pressure
elevation. Historically, NVG treatment was focused on reducing the posterior
segment ischemic process that caused the formation of new vessels, through
panretinal photocoagulation. Recently, several studies have investigated the
application of intravitreal anti-VEGF therapies in NVG. If clinical treatment
with the use of hypotensive topical drops is not sufficient, laser and/or
surgical procedures are required for intraocular pressure control.

DOI: 10.1186/s40942-016-0051-x 
PMCID: PMC5116372
PMID: 27895936  [PubMed - in process]


286. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2016 Nov 25. pii: S0365-6691(16)30189-7. doi:
10.1016/j.oftal.2016.10.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Bilateral choroidal effusion after selective laser trabeculoplasty.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Hernández Pardines F(1), Molina Martín JC(2), Fernández Montalvo L(2), Aguirre
Balsalobre F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Universitario San Juan de Alicante, San Juan de Alicante, Alicante,
España. Electronic address: oftalmofer@yahoo.es. (2)Hospital Universitario San
Juan de Alicante, San Juan de Alicante, Alicante, España.

Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) is an effective treatment to treat
open-angle glaucoma with a low risk of complications. The case is presented of a 
73 year-old woman with uncontrolled primary open-angle glaucoma who underwent
selective laser trabeculoplasty in both eyes and developed bilateral choroidal
effusion.

Copyright Â© 2016 Sociedad Española de Oftalmología. Publicado por Elsevier
España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oftal.2016.10.001 
PMID: 27894517  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


287. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Nov 1;57(14):6461-6473. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-19494.

Potential Neuroprotective Effects of an LSD1 Inhibitor in Retinal Ganglion Cells 
via p38 MAPK Activity.

Tsutsumi T(1), Iwao K(1), Hayashi H(2), Kirihara T(3), Kawaji T(1), Inoue T(1),
Hino S(4), Nakao M(4), Tanihara H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Kumamoto University Graduate
School of Medical Sciences, Kumamoto, Japan. (2)Department of Applied
Biochemistry, School of Pharmacy, Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Sciences,
Tokyo, Japan. (3)Translational Science, R&D Division, Santen Pharmaceutical Co., 
Ltd., Osaka, Japan. (4)Department of Medical Cell Biology, Institute of Molecular
Embryology and Genetics, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan.

Purpose: The epigenetic mechanisms associated with ocular neurodegenerative
diseases remain unclear. The present study aimed to determine the role of
lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1), which represses transcription by removing
the methyl group from methylated lysine 4 of histone H3, in retinal ganglion cell
(RGC) survival, and to investigate the details of the neuroprotective mechanism
of tranylcypromine, a major LSD1 inhibitor.
Methods: The authors evaluated whether tranylcypromine contributes to neuronal
survival following stress-induced damage using primary cultured rat RGCs and in
vivo N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced excitotoxicity. Additionally, the
molecules associated with tranylcypromine treatment were assessed by microarray
and immunoblot analysis.
Results: Tranylcypromine significantly suppressed neuronal cell death following
glutamate neurotoxicity and oxidative stress. Microarray and immunoblot analyses 
revealed that p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)γ was a key molecule
involved in the neuroprotective mechanisms induced by tranylcypromine because the
significant suppression of p38 MAPKγ by glutamate was reversed by
tranylcypromine. Moreover, although pharmacologic inhibition of the
phosphorylation of the total p38 MAPKs interfered with neuroprotective effects of
tranylcypromine, the specific inhibition of p38 MAPKα and p38 MAPKβ did not
influence RGC survival. This suggests that the non-p38 MAPKα/β isoforms have
important roles in neuronal survival by tranylcypromine. Additionally, the
intravitreal administration of tranylcypromine significantly saved RGC numbers in
an in vivo glaucoma model employing NMDA-induced excitotoxicity.
Conclusions: These findings indicate that tranylcypromine-induced transcriptional
and epigenetic regulation modulated RGC survival via the promotion of p38 MAPKγ
activity. Therefore, pharmacologic treatments that suppress LSD1 activity may be 
a novel therapeutic strategy that can be used to treat neurodegenerative
diseases.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19494 
PMID: 27893888  [PubMed - in process]


288. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Nov 1;57(14):6428-6439. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-19751.

Integrin α5β1 Inhibition by CLT-28643 Reduces Postoperative Wound Healing in a
Mouse Model of Glaucoma Filtration Surgery.

Van Bergen T(1), Zahn G(2), Caldirola P(2), Fsadni M(3), Caram-Lelham N(2),
Vandewalle E(4), Moons L(5), Stalmans I(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Ophthalmology, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. (2)Clanotech,
Stockholm, Sweden. (3)Clanotech, Stockholm, Sweden 3International Pharm-Med Ltd.,
Bramhall, United Kingdom. (4)Laboratory of Ophthalmology, KU Leuven, Leuven,
Belgium 4Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven,
Belgium. (5)Laboratory of Ophthalmology, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium 5Unit of
Animal Physiology and Neurobiology, Biology Department, KU Leuven, Leuven,
Belgium.

Purpose: To evaluate the therapeutic potential of the small molecule integrin
α5β1 inhibitor, CLT-28643, to improve the filtering surgery outcome in a mouse
model. Different dose regimens and administration routes of the inhibitor were
compared with mitomycin C (MMC), the gold standard in clin ical practice.
Methods: The efficacy of CLT-28643 on surgical outcome was studied in a mouse
model for filtering surgery (n = 40 eyes from 20 mice per group). Single and
repeated subconjunctival (SCJ) injections (1 or 2 μg) and topical eye drops (10
μg) of the integrin inhibitor were compared with 2-minute administration of MMC
0.02%. Bleb size, survival, and signs of toxicity were examined until 28 days
after surgery. Immunohistochemical analysis of angiogenesis, inflammation,
collagen deposition, and integrin α5β1 expression were performed on postoperative
days 3, 8, 14, and 28. A masked observer performed all the assessments.
Results: Immunostaining showed that integrin α5β1 was highly expressed in the
bleb at early time-points after surgery and that CLT-28643 inhibited this
upregulation. Efficacy was shown to be dose-dependent for the integrin inhibitor 
CLT-28643 for bleb area and survival, and the wound healing process. While 2-μg
single injection of CLT-28643 improved bleb characteristics in a similar way as
10-μg administered by eye drops and MMC, repeated injections of 2 μg showed
superior efficacy compared to MMC, with no corneal toxicity.
Conclusions: Administration of the integrin α5β1 inhibitor CLT-28643 has
therapeutic potential as an adjunct to glaucoma surgery, possibly with a superior
efficacy and tolerability compared with MMC when used at the optimal dose.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19751 
PMID: 27893886  [PubMed - in process]


289. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Nov;95(47):e5341.

Cost of glaucoma treatment in a developing country over a 5-year period.

Lazcano-Gomez G(1), Ramos-Cadena ML, Torres-Tamayo M, Hernandez de Oteyza A,
Turati-Acosta M, Jimenez-Román J.

Author information: 
(1)aGlaucoma Department, Asociación para Evitar la Ceguera en México
bEndocrinology Department, Instituto Nacional de Cardiología Ignacio Chávez,
Mexico.

The aim of the study was to disclose a realistic estimate of primary open-angle
glaucoma treatment, follow-up costs, and patients' monthly glaucoma-economic
burden in an ophthalmology hospital in Mexico City.Prospective survey of 462
primary open-angle glaucoma patients from 2007 to 2012 was carried out. Costs
from visits, glaucoma follow-up studies, laser, and glaucoma surgical procedures 
were obtained from hospital pricings. Education, employment, and monthly income
were interrogated. Total cost was divided into hypotensive treatment cost,
nonpharmacologic treatment cost (laser and surgeries), and follow-up studies and 
consults. Average wholesale price for drugs analyzed was obtained from IMS Health
data; monthly cost was calculated using: Monthly cost  = ([average wholesale
price/number of drops per eye dropper] × number of daily applications) × 30
days.Patients were classified according to their glaucoma severity, and data were
analyzed based on monthly income (average annual exchange rate: 12.85 Mexican
pesos = 1 USD).The mean age was 70 ± 10 years, women = 81%, elementary
school = 39%, and unemployed = 53%. Low-income group = 266 patients (57%), 146
with mild glaucoma; moderate-income group = 176 patients (38%), 81 with mild
glaucoma; high-income group = 20 patients (4.3%), 10 with mild glaucoma.
Patients' monthly average economic burden in glaucoma treatment: low-income
patients = 61.5%, moderate-income patients = 19.5%, and high-income
patients = 7.9%.Glaucoma-economic burden is substantial not only for health
systems, but for the family and the patient. Therefore, screening plans for
earlier diagnosis, and health policies that lessen the cost of disease management
and increase adherence to treatment, and reduce the prevalence of blindness
attributed to glaucoma are essential. These would improve quality of life, reduce
personal and national expenditure, and help increase national economy.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005341 
PMCID: PMC5134862
PMID: 27893669  [PubMed - in process]


290. Cornea. 2016 Nov 23. [Epub ahead of print]

Outcomes of Descemet Membrane Endothelial Keratoplasty in Patients With Previous 
Glaucoma Surgery.

Aravena C(1), Yu F, Deng SX.

Author information: 
(1)*Cornea Division, Department of Ophthalmology, Stein Eye Institute, David
Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, CA; and
†Departamento de Oftalmología, Escuela de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad
Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

PURPOSE: To evaluate outcomes of Descemet membrane endothelial keratoplasty
(DMEK) in eyes with previous trabeculectomy or a drainage device.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study of 108 consecutive DMEK performed between 
October 2013 and December 2015. All eyes were divided into 3 groups: surgical
treatment (ST) group, medical treatment (MT) group, and control group. Visual
improvement, endothelial cell loss, and postoperative complications, including
rejection, graft failure, and intraocular pressure elevation (≥25 mm Hg) were
evaluated.
RESULTS: The length of follow-up was 9.7 ± 7.3 months. Best-corrected visual
acuity (BCVA) improved postoperatively in 85.3% of the ST group, 100% of the MT
group, and 93% of the control (P = 0.24). Significantly more lines of BCVA were
gained in the ST and MT groups (8.1 ± 8.1 and 9.2 ± 6.3 lines, respectively) than
in the control (4.8 ± 5.6 lines, P < 0.05). The mean time to BCVA was 2.9 ± 2.8
months for the ST group, 4.7 ± 5.3 months for the MT group, and 3.0 ± 3.3 months 
for the control (P = 0.75). Endothelial cell loss was greater in the ST group
(44.6 ± 17.8%) than in the MT group (29.9 ± 12.0%) and the control group (32.7 ± 
11.3%, P = 0.001). There was one primary failure and no secondary graft failures.
The overall rejection rate was 0.9%. Postoperative intraocular pressure elevation
was less common in the ST group (14.7%) and control (23.3%) than in the MT group 
(50.0%, P = 0.04). There was no difference in the air injection rate among all
groups (P = 1.0).
CONCLUSIONS: DMEK in eyes with previous trabeculectomy and drainage device can
result in very good short-term outcomes.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0000000000001095 
PMID: 27893525  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


291. Semin Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov 28:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Evaluation of Visual Field Test Parameters after Artificial Tear Administration
in Patients with Glaucoma and Dry Eye.

Özyol P(1), Özyol E(1), Karalezli A(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Ophthalmology , Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University Faculty of
Medicine , Muğla , Turkey.

PURPOSE: To examine the effect of a single dose of artificial tear administration
on automated visual field (VF) testing in patients with glaucoma and dry eye
syndrome.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 35 patients with primary open-angle glaucoma
experienced in VF testing with symptoms of dry eye were enrolled in this study.
At the first visit, standard VF testing was performed. At the second and third
visits with an interval of one week, while the left eyes served as control, one
drop of artificial tear was administered to each patient's right eye, and then VF
testing was performed again. The reliability parameters, VF indices, number of
depressed points at probability levels of pattern deviation plots, and test times
were compared between visits.
RESULTS: No significant difference was observed in any VF testing parameters of
control eyes (P>0.05). In artificial tear administered eyes, significant
improvement was observed in test duration, mean deviation, and the number of
depressed points at probability levels (P˂0.5%, P˂1%, P˂2) of pattern deviation
plots (P˂0.05). The post-hoc test revealed that artificial tear administration
elicited an improvement in test duration, mean deviation, and the number of
depressed points at probability levels (P˂0.5%, P˂1%, P˂2%) of pattern deviation 
plots from first visit to second and third visits (P˂0.01, for all comparisons). 
The intraclass correlation coefficient for the three VF test indices was found to
be between 0.735 and 0.85 (P<0.001, for all).
DISCUSSION: A single dose of artificial tear administration immediately before VF
testing seems to improve test results and decrease test time.

DOI: 10.1080/08820538.2016.1238096 
PMID: 27893296  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


292. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Nov 1;57(14):6419-6426. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-19437.

Evidence for a GPR18 Role in Diurnal Regulation of Intraocular Pressure.

Miller S(1), Leishman E(1), Oehler O(1), Daily L(1), Murataeva N(1), Wager-Miller
J(1), Bradshaw H(1), Straiker A(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Gill Center for Biomolecular Science and the Department of Psychological
and Brain Sciences, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, United States.

Purpose: The diurnal cycling of intraocular pressure (IOP) was first described in
humans more than a century ago. This cycling is preserved in other species. The
physiologic underpinning of this diurnal variation in IOP remains a mystery, even
though elevated pressure is indicated in most forms of glaucoma, a common cause
of blindness. Once identified, the system that underlies diurnal variation would 
represent a natural target for therapeutic intervention.
Methods: Using normotensive mice, we measured the regulation of ocular lipid
species by the enzymes fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) and N-arachidonoyl
phosphatidylethanolamine phospholipase (NAPE-PLD), mRNA expression of these
enzymes, and their functional role in diurnal regulation of IOP.
Results: We now report that NAPE-PLD and FAAH mice do not exhibit a diurnal
cycling of IOP. These enzymes produce and break down acylethanolamines, including
the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide. The diurnal lipid profile in mice shows
that levels of most N-acyl ethanolamines and, intriguingly, N-arachidonoyl
glycine (NAGly), decline at night: NAGly is a metabolite of arachidonoyl
ethanolamine and a potent agonist at GPR18 that lowers intraocular pressure. The 
GPR18 blocker O1918 raises IOP during the day when pressure is low, but not at
night. Quantitative PCR analysis shows that FAAH mRNA levels rise with pressure, 
suggesting that FAAH mediates the changes in pressure.
Conclusions: Our results support FAAH-dependent NAGly action at GPR18 as the
physiologic basis of the diurnal variation of intraocular pressure in mice.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19437 
PMCID: PMC5132083
PMID: 27893106  [PubMed - in process]


293. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Nov 1;57(14):6418. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-20917.

Author Response: Stronger Association of CDKN2B-AS1 Variants in Female
Normal-Tension Glaucoma Patients in a Japanese Population.

Burdon KP(1), Ng SK(2), MacGregor S(3), Craig JE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania, Hobart,
Tasmania, Australia; 2Department of Ophthalmology Flinders University, Flinders
Medical Centre, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, South
Australia, Australia; 3Ophthalmic Research Laboratories, South Australian
Institute of Ophthalmology, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia,
Australia; and the. (3)Statistical Genetics, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research
Institute, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. (4)Department of Ophthalmology
Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, South Australia,
Australia.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-20917 
PMID: 27893105  [PubMed - in process]


294. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Nov 1;57(14):6416-6417. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-20417.

Stronger Association of CDKN2B-AS1 Variants in Female Normal-Tension Glaucoma
Patients in a Japanese Population.

Mori K(1), Nakano M(2), Tokuda Y(2), Ikeda Y(1), Ueno M(1), Sotozono C(1),
Kinoshita S(3), Tashiro K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology. (2)Department of Genomic Medical Sciences; and
the. (3)Department of Ophthalmology; 3Department of Frontier Medical Science and 
Technology for Ophthalmology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto,
Japan.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-20417 
PMID: 27893104  [PubMed - in process]


295. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Nov 1;57(14):6406. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-20990.

Author Response: Comparison of Local Structure-Function Relationships and Dynamic
Range in Glaucoma.

Miraftabi A(1), Amini N(2), Morales E(2), Henry S(2), Yu F(3), Afifi A(4),
Coleman AL(2), Caprioli J(2), Nouri-Mahdavi K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Glaucoma Division, Stein Eye Institute, David Geffen School of Medicine,
University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, United States;
2Eye Research Center, Rasoul Akram Hospital Iran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran; and the. (2)Glaucoma Division, Stein Eye Institute, David Geffen
School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
California, United States. (3)Glaucoma Division, Stein Eye Institute, David
Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
California, United States; 3Department of Biostatistics, Jonathan and Karin
Fielding School of Public Health, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California, United States. (4)Department of Biostatistics, Jonathan and 
Karin Fielding School of Public Health, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California, United States.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-20990 
PMID: 27893102  [PubMed - in process]


296. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Nov 1;57(14):6405. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-20795.

Comparison of Local Structure-Function Relationships and Dynamic Range in
Glaucoma.

Wang S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Guangzhou Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine,
Guangzhou, China.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-20795 
PMID: 27893101  [PubMed - in process]


297. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2017 Jan 1;135(1):31-38. doi: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2016.4486.

Genetic and Environmental Factors Associated With the Ganglion Cell Complex in a 
Healthy Aging British Cohort.

Bloch E(1), Yonova-Doing E(1), Jones-Odeh E(1), Williams KM(2), Kozareva D(1),
Hammond CJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Twin Research and Genetic Epidemiology, King's College London,
London, England. (2)Department of Twin Research and Genetic Epidemiology, King's 
College London, London, England2Department of Ophthalmology, King's College
London, London, England.

Importance: Measurement of ganglion cell complex (GCC) thickness may be more
sensitive than current methods for glaucoma diagnosis and research. However,
little is known about the factors influencing GCC thickness in the general
population.
Objectives: To investigate the heritability of and factors associated with GCC
thickness in a healthy aging population.
Design, Setting, and Participants: A cross-sectional twin study was conducted
from August 27, 2014, to March 31, 2016, among 1657 participants of white British
ancestry from the TwinsUK study cohort without ocular pathologic conditions.
Heritability analyses were conducted in 1432 twins (426 monozygous and 290
dizygous pairs). Association analyses were performed using univariable and
multivariable stepwise linear regression models, taking family structure into
account. Heritability analyses were conducted using maximum likelihood structural
equation twin modeling.
Main Outcomes and Measures: Parameters measured included GCC thickness,
autorefraction, intraocular pressure, blood pressure, body mass index, and
cholesterol, creatinine, glucose, insulin, triglycerides, and urea levels.
Estimated glomerular filtration rate was calculated using the Modification of
Diet in Renal Disease formula.
Results: Among the 1657 participants (mean [SD] age, 56.0 [15.3] years; 89.5%
women and 10.5% men), the mean [SD] inner GCC thickness was 96.0 [7.6] μm (95%
CI, 95.1-96.2). In multivariable modeling, the mean inner GCC thickness was
associated with advancing age (β, -0.14; P < .001), increased body mass index (β,
-0.15; P = .001), spherical equivalent (β, 0.70; P < .001), and higher estimated 
glomerular filtration rate (β, 0.03; P = .02). A 1-U increase in age or body mass
index was associated with a 0.14-µm and 0.15-µm decrease in GCC thickness,
respectively (P < .001), while a 1-U increase in spherical equivalent or
estimated glomerular filtration rate was associated with a 0.70-µm (P < .001) and
0.03-µm (P = .02) increase in GCC thickness, respectively. Ganglion cell complex 
thickness was not associated with sex, intraocular pressure, or diabetes.
Age-adjusted GCC thickness was highly heritable, with additive genetic effects
explaining 81% (95% CI, 78%-84%) of phenotypic variance and individual
environmental factors explaining the remaining 19% (95% CI, 16%-22%).
Conclusions and Relevance: Ganglion cell complex thickness appears to be highly
heritable and further genetic analysis may help identify new biological pathways 
for glaucoma. The results suggest it may be important to account for age, body
mass index, refractive error, and sex when using GCC thickness as a diagnostic
tool. Replication of their results is required, as is further research to explain
the association between renal function and GCC thickness.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2016.4486 
PMID: 27893004  [PubMed - in process]


298. Ophthalmic Genet. 2016 Nov 28:1-5. [Epub ahead of print]

Association of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in non-coding regions of the TLR4 
gene with primary open angle glaucoma in a Mexican population.

Navarro-Partida J(1), Alvarado Castillo B(2), Martinez-Rizo AB(3), Rosales-Diaz
R(3), Velazquez-Fernandez JB(4), Santos A(1).

Author information: 
(1)a División de Biotecnología y Salud, Campus Guadalajara , Tecnológico de
Monterrey , Guadalajara , Jalisco , México. (2)b Instituto Mexicano del Seguro
Social , Centro Médico Nacional de Occidente , Guadalajara , Jalisco , México.
(3)c Unidad Académica de Medicina , Universidad Autónoma de Nayarit , Tepic ,
Nayarit , México. (4)d Secretaría de Investigación y Posgrado , Universidad
Autónoma de Nayarit , Tepic , Nayarit , México.

BACKGROUND: Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) non-coding polymorphisms are associated
to primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), normal tension glaucoma, and
pseudoexfoliation glaucoma. This study was performed to determine whether
non-coding single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the TLR4 gene contribute to 
POAG in a Mexican population.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 187 unrelated Mexican patients with POAG and 109
control subjects were included. Allelic, genotypic, and haplotypic diversity was 
assessed for the non-coding polymorphisms rs11536889, rs1927911, rs12377632, and 
rs2149356 of the TLR4 gene. Genotyping of target SNPs was performed by 5'
exonuclease allelic discrimination assays.
RESULTS: Strong linkage disequilibrium was observed among the SNPs (D' > 0.818), 
which were located in one haplotype block. The rs11536889 polymorphism was not
associated to POAG in any case. The frequency of the minor allele of rs2149356
was significantly higher in the glaucoma group, conferring an increased risk of
POAG (p = 0.0018, OR = 1.803, 95% CI 1.2556-2.5890) whereas minor allele of
rs12377632 was significantly lower, attributing a protective effect (p = 0.0001, 
OR = 0.6662, 95% CI 0.4753-0.9339). Subjects with genotypes carrying the minor
allele of rs1927911 and rs2149356 shown an increased risk for POAG (p = 0.03, OR 
= 1.78, 95% CI 1.10-2.87, and p < 0.0004, OR =2.62, 95%CI 1.61-4.27
respectively). Finally, we found significant risk haplotypes. The GTT haplotype
(constituted by rs1927911, rs12377632, and rs2149356) reached the higher OR (p = 
0.0026, OR = 4.70, 95% CI 1.73-12.77).
CONCLUSIONS: We have identified intronic TLR4 SNPs as genetic susceptibility
alleles for POAG in a Mexican population. Our findings support the association of
the TLR4 gene with POAG.

DOI: 10.1080/13816810.2016.1227454 
PMID: 27892755  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


299. Neuroscience. 2017 Jan 26;341:27-41. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2016.11.019.
Epub 2016 Nov 24.

Relevant variations and neuroprotecive effect of hydrogen sulfide in a rat
glaucoma model.

Huang S(1), Huang P(2), Liu X(1), Lin Z(1), Wang J(1), Xu S(1), Guo L(3), Leung
CK(4), Zhong Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ruijin Hospital Affiliated Medical School,
Shanghai Jiaotong University, 197 Ruijin Er Road, 200025 Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Key Laboratory for Bone and Joint Diseases, Shanghai Institute of
Traumatology and Orthopaedics, Ruijin Hospital Affiliated Medical School,
Shanghai Jiaotong University, 197 Ruijin Er Road, 200025 Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai Key Laboratory for Bone and Joint Diseases, Shanghai Institute of
Traumatology and Orthopaedics, Ruijin Hospital Affiliated Medical School,
Shanghai Jiaotong University, 197 Ruijin Er Road, 200025 Shanghai, China.
Electronic address: guolei607@126.com. (4)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual 
Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. (5)Department of
Ophthalmology, Ruijin Hospital Affiliated Medical School, Shanghai Jiaotong
University, 197 Ruijin Er Road, 200025 Shanghai, China. Electronic address:
yszhong68@126.com.

Glaucoma is an irreversible and blinding neurodegenerative disease of the eye,
and is characterized by progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Since 
endogenous hydrogen sulfide (H2S) was reported to be involved in
neurodegeneration in the central nervous system, the authors aimed to develop a
chronic ocular hypertension (COH) rat model simulating glaucoma and therein test 
the H2S level together with the retinal protein expressions of related synthases,
and further investigated the effect of exogenous H2S supplement on RGC survival. 
COH rat model was induced by cross-linking hydrogel injection into anterior
chamber, and the performance of the model was assessed by intraocular pressure
(IOP) measurement, RGC counting and retinal morphological analysis. Endogenous
H2S level was detected along with the retinal protein expressions of H2S-related 
synthases cystathionine β-synthase (CBS), cystathionine γ-lyase (CSE) and
3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3-MST) in the COH rats. Retinal H2S level
and RGC survival were evaluated again after NaHS (a H2S donor) treatment in the
COH rats. The results showed that the COH model succeeded in simulating glaucoma 
features, and retinal H2S level decreased significantly when the retinal protein 
expressions of CBS, CSE and 3-MST were downregulated generally in the COH rats.
Furthermore, the decrease of retinal H2S level and loss of RGCs were both
improved by NaHS treatment in experimental glaucoma, without obvious variation of
IOP. Our study revealed that the intracameral injection of cross-linking hydrogel
worked efficiently in modeling glaucoma, and H2S had protective effect on RGCs
and might be involved in the pathological mechanism of glaucomatous neuropathy.

Copyright © 2016 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2016.11.019 
PMID: 27890826  [PubMed - in process]


300. Mitochondrion. 2016 Nov 24. pii: S1567-7249(16)30258-6. doi:
10.1016/j.mito.2016.11.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Visual light effects on mitochondria: The potential implications in relation to
glaucoma.

Osborne NN(1), Núñez-Álvarez C(2), Del Olmo-Aguado S(2), Merrayo-Lloves J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Universitario Fernández Vega, Fundación de Investigación
Oftalmológica, Universidad de Oviedo, Avda. Doctores Fernández-Vega 34, E-33012
Oviedo, Asturias, Spain. Electronic address: Neville.osborne@eye.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Instituto Universitario Fernández Vega, Fundación de Investigación
Oftalmológica, Universidad de Oviedo, Avda. Doctores Fernández-Vega 34, E-33012
Oviedo, Asturias, Spain.

Light of different wave-lengths have the potential to interact with four major
mitochondrial protein complexes that are involved in the generation of ATP.
Neurones of the central nervous system have an absolute dependence on
mitochondrial generated ATP. Laboratory studies show that short-wave or blue
light (400-480nm) that impinges on the retina affect flavin and cytochrome
constituents associated with mitochondria to decrease the rate of ATP formation, 
stimulate ROS and results in cell death. This suggests that blue light could
potentially have a negative influence on retinal ganglion cell (RGC) mitochondria
that are abundant and not shielded by macular pigments as occurs for
photoreceptor mitochondria. This might be of significance in glaucoma where it is
likely that RGC mitochondria are already affected and therefore be more
susceptible to blue light. Thus simply filtering out some natural blue light from
entering the eye might be beneficial for the treatment of glaucoma. Long-wave or 
red light (650-800nm) affects mitochondrial complex IV or cytochrome oxidase to
increase the rate of formation of ATP and ROS causing the generation of a number 
of beneficial factors. Significantly, laboratory studies show that increasing the
normal amount of natural red light reaching rat RGC mitochondria in situ,
subj