
1. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2017 Jan 5;17(1):8. doi: 10.1186/s12872-016-0447-4.

Epidemiological characteristics and gender-specific differences of obstructive
sleep apnea in a Chinese hypertensive population: a cross-sectional study.

Cai A(1), Zhou Y(1), Zhang J(1), Zhong Q(1), Wang R(1), Wang L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Guangdong Cardiovascular Institute, Guangdong
Provincial Key Laboratory of Coronary Heart Disease Prevention, Guangdong General
Hospital, Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, 106 Zhongshan Road 2, Guangzhou,
510080, China. (2)Department of Cardiology, Guangdong Cardiovascular Institute,
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Coronary Heart Disease Prevention,
Guangdong General Hospital, Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, 106 Zhongshan 
Road 2, Guangzhou, 510080, China. lingwang2015@yeah.net.

BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is associated with an increase in the
prevalence and incidence of hypertension and cardiovascular diseases. Data about 
epidemiological characteristics of OSA in Chinese hypertensive populations is
limited.
METHODS: Hypertensive subjects without a prior diagnosis of OSA were recruited,
and the apnea-hyponea index (AHI) was assessed by polysomnography. Comparisons
were performed between subjects without OSA and with different degrees of OSA.
Gender-specific differences in epidemiological characteristics of OSA were also
analyzed. Univariate and multivariate regression analyses were conducted to
evaluate the associations between OSA and other variables.
RESULTS: A total of 971 hypertensive subjects were enrolled and 685 (70.5%) were 
diagnosed with OSA. Compared to those without OSA, subjects with OSA were more
likely male (78.4% versus 71.7%, P = 0.016) and at higher cardiovascular risk in 
subjects with moderate-severe OSA. Among the 685 OSA subjects, 79.4% (537 cases) 
were males. Gender-specific differences in epidemiological characteristics of OSA
were observed. Multivariate regression analyses revealed that after adjusting for
covariates, only body mass index positively correlated with OSA in males (odds
ratio (OR): 1.064, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.008-1.123, P = 0.024). In
female subjects, after adjusting for covariates, only age positively correlated
with OSA (OR: 1.071, 95% CI: 1.029-1.116, P = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: In summary, in a Chinese hypertensive population, OSA prevalence is
strikingly high. Hypertensive subjects with the most severe OSA are at greater
cardiovascular risk. There are significant differences in epidemiological
characteristics of OSA between male and female.

DOI: 10.1186/s12872-016-0447-4 
PMID: 28056799  [PubMed - in process]


2. Zhonghua Xin Xue Guan Bing Za Zhi. 2016 Dec 24;44(12):1036-1039. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3758.2016.12.009.

[A novel open chest method of right ventricular hemodynamics measurement in
pulmonary hypertensive mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Yuan AH(1), He YY, Yang SH, Li SQ, Ye J, Hu S, Qiu JY, Jing ZC, Wang XJ.

Author information: 
(1)*State Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Diseases, Fuwai Hospital, National
Center for Cardiovascular Diseases, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100037, China.

Objective: Right heart catheterization is the gold-standard for measurement of
right ventricular hemodynamics. However, it is difficult to perform in mice. We
thus aimed to establish a new open chest method to record and analyze the right
ventricular hemodynamic parameters in intubated mice connected to a respirator
under anesthesia. Methods: Eight-week old male C57BL/6 mice were divided into the
control group, and the hypoxia group using completely random method. Mice in the 
hypoxia group were exposed in low pressure oxygen chamber, which simulated the
environment of plateau (5 500 m altitude, 10% oxygen) for 3 weeks. Mice in the
control group were exposed in normal pressure and oxygen environment. The mice
were intratracheally intubated and connected to a respirator, chest was opened,
right ventricular hemodynamics were measured with a needle (0.7 mm×19 mm)
punctured into right ventricle (5 mm in death), which was connected to the
measuring equipment. Results: The open chest procedure could be finished within
5-10 minutes. The successful rate was 100%. There was no significant difference
in heart rate between control group and hypoxia group under anesthetia
((306.4±11.5) bpm vs.(320.4±16.0) bpm, P>0.05). Compared with the control group, 
both the right ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP) and the mean right
ventricular pressure(mRVP)were increased in hypoxia group ((17.1±1.0)mmHg(1
mmHg=0.133 kPa) vs. (22.6±1.0) mmHg, P<0.01; (9.6±0.8) mmHg vs.(12.4±0.3) mmHg,
P<0.01). Moreover, the absolute value of the maximal rate of increase in right
ventricular pressure (dp/dtmax) and the maximal rate of decrease in right
ventricular pressure (dp/dtmin) were higher in the hypoxia group
((421.3±30.6)mmHg/s vs.(639.7±47.7)mmHg/s, P<0.01; (-324.3±24.0)mmHg/s vs.
(-496.5±40.6) mmHg/s, P<0.01), indicating the pathological status after hypoxia
treatment. Conclusions: Right ventricular hemodynamics measurement with this open
chest technique is easy to handle and can accurately reflect the right
ventricular pressure in mice under physiological and pathological conditions.


PMID: 28056235  [PubMed - in process]


3. Sleep Med. 2016 Mar 4. pii: S1389-9457(15)00940-5. doi:
10.1016/j.sleep.2015.07.031. [Epub ahead of print]

Atrial fibrillation is a major cause of stroke in apneic patients: a prospective 
study.

Poli M(1), Philip P(2), Taillard J(3), Debruxelles S(4), Renou P(4), Orgogozo
JM(1), Rouanet F(4), Sibon I(5).

Author information: 
(1)CHU Bordeaux, Unité Neurovasculaire, Place Amélie Raba-Léon, 33000 Bordeaux,
France; Université Bordeaux 2, Bordeaux, France. (2)Université Bordeaux 2,
Bordeaux, France; Université Bordeaux, Sommeil, Attention et Neuropsychiatrie,
USR 3413, F-33000 Bordeaux, France; CNRS, SANPSY, USR 3413, F-33000 Bordeaux,
France. (3)Université Bordeaux, Sommeil, Attention et Neuropsychiatrie, USR 3413,
F-33000 Bordeaux, France; CNRS, SANPSY, USR 3413, F-33000 Bordeaux, France.
(4)CHU Bordeaux, Unité Neurovasculaire, Place Amélie Raba-Léon, 33000 Bordeaux,
France. (5)CHU Bordeaux, Unité Neurovasculaire, Place Amélie Raba-Léon, 33000
Bordeaux, France; Université Bordeaux 2, Bordeaux, France; INCIA, Bordeaux,
France. Electronic address: igor.sibon@chu-bordeaux.fr.

OBJECTIVES: Large prospective studies have established that sleep-disordered
breathing (SDB) is associated with an increased incidence of cardiovascular and
cerebrovascular diseases. Heterogeneous results have been published about SDB and
ischaemic stroke mechanism. The aim of this study was to evaluate the
relationship between poststroke apneic syndrome and stroke aetiologies according 
to the ASCO classification.
METHODS: A total of 134 patients with acute ischaemic cerebrovascular events were
prospectively included. Patients with severe or infratentorial infarctions were
excluded. Stroke risk factors and clinical characteristics were recorded in all
patients. An overnight polygraphy was recorded (Embletta PDS). Apneic patients
were defined if the polygraphy reported an apnea-hypopnea index ≥15. A
standardized diagnosis workup, including serum biological investigation,
evaluation of extra and intracranial arteries and heart morphology and function, 
was performed. Stroke mechanism was defined using ASCO and TOAST classifications.
RESULTS: A proportion of 42% (56 of 134) of the patients were diagnosed as having
sleep apneas. Apneic patients were older (p < 0.001), had higher BMI (p = 0.02), 
and more were hypertensive (p < 0.001). Using ASCO classification, a major
cardioembolic source of stroke, mainly atrial fibrillation, was more frequently
observed in apneic patients (41.1% vs. 20.5%, p < 0.05), while no difference was 
observed when considering atherosclerosis or small-vessel disease mechanisms.
Univariate analysis showed that cardioembolic stroke depends on sex, age, left
atrial size and OSA; however, age remained the only significant factor in
multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms the high prevalence of sleep apneas in
stroke-affected patients and identifies atrial fibrillation as a major source of 
stroke in this population. The strong correlation between age and SDB seems to
drive the increased frequency of stroke related to atrial fibrillation in this
population.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleep.2015.07.031 
PMID: 28041720  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


4. Ultrastruct Pathol. 2016 Dec 28:1-15. doi: 10.1080/01913123.2016.1260080. [Epub
ahead of print]

Therapeutic effect of mesenchymal stem cells on experimentally induced
hypertensive cardiomyopathy in adult albino rats.

Khater NA(1), Selim SA(1), Abd El-Baset SA(1), Abd El Hameed SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Histology and Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine , Zagazig
University , Zagazig , Egypt.

Hypertensive heart diseases affect millions of people worldwide. We aimed to
investigate the hypertensive left ventricular histological changes and assess the
effectiveness of bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) therapy in the
treatment of hypertensive cardiomyopathy. Adult male albino rats were assigned
into two groups: group I (control), group II (Experimental) subdivided into
subgroup IIa (hypertensive) and subgroup IIb (stem cell therapy). Left ventricles
(LVs) were processed for light and electron microscope. Mallory's trichrome and
immunostaining for caspase-3 and desmin were carried out. Hypertension caused
left ventricular histological and immunohistochemical changes that had been
effectively improved by MSCs therapy.

DOI: 10.1080/01913123.2016.1260080 
PMID: 28029272  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


5. Nagoya J Med Sci. 2016 Dec;78(4):377-386. doi: 10.18999/nagjms.78.4.377.

Associations between proteinuria and cardiovascular risk factors among
hypertensive patients in Andkhoy, Afghanistan.

Shoaib Hamrah M(1), Hashem Hamrah M(2), Ishii H(1), Suzuki S(1), Hussain Hamrah
M(2), Hassan Hamrah M(2), Yisireyili M(1), Kano N(1), Takeshita K(3), Sakamoto
J(4), Murohara T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine,
Nagoya, Japan. (2)Dr.Mohammad Hashem Hamrah's Curative Clinic, Andkhoy,
Afghanistan. (3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Nagoya University Hospital,
Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan. (4)Tokai Central
Hospital, Kakamigahara, Japan.

Proteinuria in hypertension is an early marker of renal disease and a predictor
for the progression of end stage renal disease, and cardiovascular diseases. This
study was designed to determine the prevalence of proteinuria and its association
with cardiovascular risk factors among adult hypertensive patients in
Afghanistan. Five hundred fifty-five patients with a high blood pressure recorded
in an outpatient clinic in Andkhoy, Afghanistan from December 2014 to May 2015,
were included in this study. Data obtained from each patient, included
demographic characteristics, body mass index, blood pressure patterns,
cardiovascular history, cardiovascular risk factors, comorbidity, and current
drug-therapy. Dipstick screening for proteinuria was performed with reagent test 
strips. The mean age of the patients was 57.9 ± 13.3 years, and a female
predominance was observed (n = 333, 60%). The prevalence of proteinuria was
67.2%. The predictors of proteinuria were found to be age ≥65 years (odds ratio
[OR] 1.02, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.00-1.04), smoking (OR 1.88, 95% CI
1.17-3.02), heart failure (OR 2.23, 95% CI 1.13-4.41), and diabetes mellitus (OR 
3.41, 95% CI 1.49-7.81). In conclusion, this study shows that proteinuria is
highly prevalent among hypertensive outpatients in an outpatient clinic in
Andkhoy, Afghanistan, especially in those with high cardiovascular risk.

DOI: 10.18999/nagjms.78.4.377 
PMCID: PMC5159463
PMID: 28008193  [PubMed]


6. J Am Heart Assoc. 2016 Dec 21;5(12). pii: e004260. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.116.004260.

Association of Family History With Cardiovascular Disease in Hypertensive
Individuals in a Multiethnic Population.

Valerio L(1,)(2), Peters RJ(2), Zwinderman AH(3), Pinto-Sietsma SJ(4,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Amsterdam Academic Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. (2)Department of Cardiology, University of Amsterdam 
Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. (3)Department of Clinical
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Amsterdam Academic Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. (4)Department of Vascular Medicine, University of
Amsterdam Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
s.j.pinto@amc.uva.nl.

BACKGROUND: Hypertension alone is a poor predictor of the individual risk of
cardiovascular disease. Hereditary factors of which hypertension is merely a
marker may explain why some hypertensive individuals appear more susceptible to
cardiovascular disease, and why some ethnicities have more often seemingly
hypertension-related cardiovascular disease than others. We hypothesize that, in 
hypertensive individuals, a positive family history of cardiovascular disease
identifies a high-risk subpopulation.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Healthy Life in Urban Settings (HELIUS) is a cohort study
among participants of Dutch, South-Asian Surinamese, African Surinamese,
Ghanaian, Turkish, and Moroccan origin aged 70 years and younger. In participants
with hypertension (n=6467), we used logistic regression to assess the association
of family history of cardiovascular disease with prevalent stroke and nonstroke
cardiovascular disease, adjusting for sex, age, education, and smoking. To detect
ethnic differences, we tested for interaction between family history and
ethnicity and stratified the analysis by ethnicity. A positive family history was
associated with a higher prevalence of nonstroke cardiovascular disease (odds
ratio [OR], 2.05; 95% CI, 1.65-2.54) and stroke (OR, 1.62; 95% CI, 1.19-2.20).
The strongest association of family history with nonstroke cardiovascular disease
was found among the Dutch (OR, 2.47; 95% CI, 1.37-4.44) and with stroke among the
African Surinamese (OR, 2.17; 95% CI, 1.32-3.57). The interaction between family 
history and African Surinamese origin for stroke was statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: In multiethnic populations of hypertensive patients, a positive
family history of cardiovascular disease may be used clinically to identify
individuals at high risk for nonstroke cardiovascular disease regardless of
ethnic origin and African Surinamese individuals at high risk for stroke.

© 2016 The Authors. Published on behalf of the American Heart Association, Inc., 
by Wiley Blackwell.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.116.004260 
PMCID: PMC5210427
PMID: 28003252  [PubMed - in process]


7. Cardiovasc Hematol Disord Drug Targets. 2016 Dec 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Hypertensive Crisis: pharmacotherapy and complications.

Wani-Parekh P(1), Garcia-Blanco C, Mendez M, Mukherjee D.

Author information: 
(1)Texas Tech HSC El Paso - Internal Medicine El Paso, TX, United States.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are the number one cause of death globally compared
to any other cause. CVD accounts for approximately 17.3 million deaths per year
and are rising. Hypertension is the leading risk factor for cardiovascular
diseases. Approximately 80 million people suffer from hypertension in the U.S.
While, majority of these individuals are on antihypertensive medications only 54%
of individuals with hypertension are optimally controlled. Heart failure and
stroke are some of the devastating complications of uncontrolled hypertension.
Hypertensive crisis can be classified as either an urgency or emergency;
difference between the two is presence of end organ damage, which is noted in
hypertensive emergency. Hypertensive crisis is usually treated by parenteral
antihypertensive medications. The main drug classes of drugs for treatment are
nitrates, calcium channel blockers, dopamine-1 agonists, adrenergic-blocking
agents etc. In this review, we discuss approach to management of hypertensive
crisis and each drug class with its physiology and complications.


PMID: 28000548  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


8. Radiat Res. 2016 Dec 19. [Epub ahead of print]

Mortality Analysis of the Life Span Study (LSS) Cohort Taking into Account
Multiple Causes of Death Indicated in Death Certificates.

Takamori A(1), Takahashi I(2), Kasagi F(3,)(4), Suyama A(5), Ozasa K(6), Yanagawa
T(7).

Author information: 
(1)a   Graduate School of Medicine, Kurume University, Kurume City, Fukuoka,
Japan. (2)f   Clinical Studies, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Hiroshima,
Japan. (3)b   Consultant, Kurume University, Kurume City, Fukuoka, Japan. (4)g   
Institute of Radiation Epidemiology, Radiation Effects Association, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)d   Department of Nagasaki Epidemiology, Kurume University, Kurume City,
Fukuoka, Japan. (6)  Department of cHiroshima/Kurume University, Kurume City,
Fukuoka, Japan. (7)e   Department of Biostatistics Center, Kurume University,
Kurume City, Fukuoka, Japan.

Mortality analyses have been performed using underlying causes of death as
reported on death certificates; these are uniquely determined for a deceased
person according to the World Health Organization coding system. Comorbidities,
the disease conditions other than the underlying cause of death from death
certificates recording multiple causes of death, have rarely been explored in
Life Span Study subjects. The purpose of this study was to clarify associations
between atomic bomb radiation exposure and mortality from combinations of the
underlying cause of death and comorbidities. The focused follow-up period was
1977-2003, prior to which death certificate accuracy was unreliable. The study
cohort was comprised of 10,017 people for whom the category "all circulatory
disease" was listed as the underlying cause of death, of which heart disease
(rheumatic, hypertensive and ischemic heart disease) and stroke were major
subtypes. Comorbidities considered were pneumonia, renal disease, diabetes
mellitus, cancer and the major circulatory disease subtypes listed above. Poisson
regression models were used for analyses. Excess relative risks (ERRs) for
mortality at 1 Gy were significantly increased when cancer was comorbid with all 
circulatory disease, heart disease, ischemic heart disease or stroke, ranging
from 0.61 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.13, 1.41; N = 177] for all circulatory
diseases to 1.60 (CI: 0.07, 4.86; N = 42) for ischemic heart disease. Among the
other comorbidities, only diabetes comorbid with heart disease had a significant 
radiation dose response (ERR at 1 Gy of 0.62, CI: 0.10, 1.46; N = 128). It
remains uncertain if the high ERRs with comorbid cancers were anomalous due to
the small number of cases or some dissimilarity in statistical methodologies, or 
if this might suggest some pathogenetic basis for increased fatality. For this
reason, further investigation is required.

DOI: 10.1667/RR14314.1 
PMID: 27992282  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


9. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Dec 14. pii: S0378-8741(16)32370-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2016.12.024. [Epub ahead of print]

Alibertia edulis (L.C. Rich.) A.C. Rich - a potent diuretic arising from
Brazilian indigenous species.

de Santana Aquino DF(1), Signor Tirloni CA(1), Tolouei Menegati SE(2), Lima
Cardoso CA(3), Heredia Vieira SC(3), Carmo Vieira MD(4), Simonet AM(5), Macías
FA(5), Junior AG(6).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Federal University of Grande Dourados, Dourados,
MS, Brazil. (2)Faculty of Sciences Biological and Environmental, Federal
University of Grande Dourados, Dourados, MS, Brazil. (3)Research Center in
Biodiversity, Faculty of Chemistry, State University of Mato Grosso do Sul,
Dourados, MS, Brazil. (4)Laboratory of Medicinal Plants, Faculty of Agrarian
Sciences, Federal University of Grande Dourados, Dourados, MS, Brazil.
(5)Departament of Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, University of Cádiz,
Cádiz, Spain. (6)Faculty of Health Sciences, Federal University of Grande
Dourados, Dourados, MS, Brazil. Electronic address:
arquimedesgasparotto@gmail.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Although Alibertia edulis (L.C. Rich.) A.C. Rich 
decoction is used in Brazilian folk medicine due to its possible antihypertensive
effect, this species has never been critically investigated as a hypotensive
drug. So, the aim of this study was to evaluate the possible hypotensive and
antihypertensive effects of the oral administration of Alibertia edulis aqueous
extract (AEAE) in normotensive and hypertensive rats, and evaluate its
inter-relation with a possible diuretic activity.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Different doses of AEAE (20, 65 and 200mg/kg) were tested
on the mean arterial pressure (MAP) of normotensive Wistar rats and after
induction of renovascular hypertension (two-kidney, one-clip Goldblatt model). In
addition, the diuretic effects of AEAE were compared with hydrochlorothiazide
(HCTZ) in an acute and repeated-dose treatment for 7 days. Volume, sodium,
potassium, chloride, calcium contents, pH and density were estimated in urine
samples collected after 8 or 24hours. Plasma sodium, potassium, total protein,
urea, creatinine, AST and ALT concentrations were measured in samples collected
at the end of the experimental period (seventh day). Finally, the antioxidant
activity of the AEAE was assessed using the DPPH radical scavenging and ferric
ions reducing power assay.
RESULTS: The intraduodenal administration of the HCTZ and AEAE significantly
reduced, in a dose-dependent manner, the MAP in both normotensive and
hypertensive rats. Otherwise, the heart rate was not affected by any treatment.
Acute and prolonged oral administration of AEAE (200mg/kg) and HCTZ caused a
significant increase in volume and urinary concentrations of sodium, potassium
and chloride. Moreover, urinary calcium concentration was significantly increased
after administration of AEAE (200mg/kg). Finally, AEAE was able to present
important in vitro antioxidant properties.
CONCLUSION: The results obtained have shown that AEAE presents potent diuretic
activity and significant hypotensive and antihypertensive effect. In addition,
this study may confirm part of the pharmacological activity popularly attributed 
to this species and opens perspective for the future use in various renal and
cardiovascular diseases.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.12.024 
PMID: 27988400  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


10. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. 2016 Dec 16:ajpheart.00759.2016. doi:
10.1152/ajpheart.00759.2016. [Epub ahead of print]

A pathogenic role of complement in arterial hypertension and hypertensive end
organ damage.

Wenzel UO(1), Bode M(2), Köhl J(3), Ehmke H(4).

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg wenzel@uke.de. (2)University
Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg. (3)Institute for Systemic Inflammation
Research. (4)University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf.

The self-amplifying cascade of messenger and effector molecules of the complement
system serves as a powerful danger sensing system that protects the host from a
hostile microbial environment, while maintaining proper tissue and organ function
through effective clearance of altered or dying cells. As an important effector
arm of innate immunity it plays also important roles in the regulation of
adaptive immunity. Innate and adaptive immune response have been identified as
crucial players in the pathogenesis of arterial hypertension and hypertensive end
organ damage. In line with this view, complement activation may drive the
pathology of hypertension and hypertensive injury through its impact on innate
and adaptive immune responses. It is well known that complement activation can
cause tissue inflammation and injury, and complement-inhibitory drugs are
effective treatments for several inflammatory diseases. In addition to these
pro-inflammatory properties, complement cleavage fragments of C3 and C5 can exert
anti-inflammatory effects that dampen the inflammatory response to injury. Recent
experimental data strongly support a role for complement in arterial
hypertension. The remarkably similar clinical and histopathological features of
malignant nephrosclerosis and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome, which is driven
by complement activation, suggest a role for complement also in the development
of malignant nephrosclerosis. Herein, we will review canonical and non-canonical 
pathways of complement activation as the framework to understand the multiple
roles of complement in arterial hypertension and hypertensive end organ damage.

Copyright © 2016, American Journal of Physiology-Heart and Circulatory
Physiology.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.00759.2016 
PMID: 27986662  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


11. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2016 Dec 14. [Epub ahead of print]

Renal Ultrasound (and Doppler Sonography) in Hypertension: An Update.

Boddi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Experimental and Clinical Department, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
maria.boddi@unifi.it.

Ultrasound (US) allows the non-invasive evaluation of morphological changes of
kidney structure (by means of B-Mode) and patterns of renal and extrarenal
vascularization (by means of color-Doppler and contrast-enhanced US). In
hypertensive subjects it offers a relevant contribution to the diagnosis of early
renal damage, acute or chronic nephropathies and nephrovascular disease. However,
morphological changes are often detected late and non-specific and in recent
years evidence has increased regarding the clinical relevance of renal resistive 
index (RRI) for the study of vascular and renal parenchymal renal abnormalities. 
RRI is measured by Doppler sonography in an intrarenal artery, as the difference 
between the peak systolic and end-diastolic blood velocities divided by the peak 
systolic velocity. At first RRI was proved to be a marker of renal disease onset 
and progression; later the influence of systemic vascular properties on RRI was
shown and authors claimed its use as an independent predictor of cardiovascular
risk rather than of renal damage. Indeed, renal vascular resistance is only one
of several renal (vascular compliance, interstitial and venous pressure), and
extrarenal (heart rate, pulse pressure) determinants that concur to determine RRI
individual values but not the most important one. The clinical relevance of RRI
measurement as a surrogate endpoint of specific renal damage or/and as surrogate 
endpoint of atherosclerotic diffuse vascular damage is still debated.To
summarize, from the literature: (a) In hypertensives with normal renal function
and no albuminuria, especially in younger people, RRI is an early marker of renal
damage that is especially useful when hypertension and diabetes concur in the
same subjects. In these subjects RRI could improve current clinical scores used
to stratify early renal damage. In older subjects RRI increases in accordance
with the increase in systemic vascular stiffness and, because of this close
relationship, RRI is also a marker of systemic atherosclerotic burden and the
role of renal determinants can weaken. The clinical relevance was not
specifically investigated. (b) In transplant kidney and in chronic renal disease 
high (>0.80) RRI values can independently predict renal failure. The recent claim
that systemic (pulse pressure) rather than renal hemodynamic determinants sustain
this predictive role of RRI, does not significantly reduce this predictive role
of RRI. (c) Doppler ultrasound allows diagnosis and grading of renal stenosis in 
both fibromuscolar dysplastic and atherosclerotic diseases. Moreover, by RRI
assay Doppler ultrasound can indirectly measure the hemodynamic impact of renal
artery stenosis on the homolateral kidney, by virtue of the stenosis-related
decrease in pulse pressure. However, in elderly subjects with atherosclerotic
renal artery stenosis coexisting renal diseases can independently increase RRI by
the augmentation in renal vascular stiffness and tubulo-interstitial pressure and
hidden changes due to renal artery stenosis.

DOI: 10.1007/5584_2016_170 
PMID: 27966109  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


12. J Am Soc Hypertens. 2016 Dec;10(12):930-938.e9. doi: 10.1016/j.jash.2016.10.010. 
Epub 2016 Nov 9.

Electrocardiographic measures of left ventricular hypertrophy in the
Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial.

Ernst ME(1), Davis BR(2), Soliman EZ(3), Prineas RJ(3), Okin PM(4), Ghosh A(5),
Cushman WC(6), Einhorn PT(7), Oparil S(8), Grimm RH Jr(9); ALLHAT Collaborative
Research Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice and Science, College of Pharmacy, The
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA; Department of Family Medicine, Carver
College of Medicine, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA. (2)Coordinating 
Center for Clinical Trials, Department of Biostatistics, University of Texas
School of Public Health, Houston, TX, USA. Electronic address:
barry.r.davis@uth.tmc.edu. (3)Epidemiological Cardiology Research Center
(EPICARE), Division of Public Health Sciences, Department of Epidemiology and
Prevention, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(4)Division of Cardiology, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Coordinating Center for Clinical Trials, Department of Biostatistics,
University of Texas School of Public Health, Houston, TX, USA. (6)Preventive
Medicine Section, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Memphis, TN, USA. (7)Division 
of Heart and Vascular Diseases, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute,
Bethesda, MD, USA. (8)Vascular Biology and Hypertension Program, Division of
Cardiovascular Disease, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(9)Berman Center for Outcomes and Clinical Research, Minneapolis Medical Research
Foundation, Minneapolis, MN, USA; Division of Clinical Epidemiology, Hennepin
County Medical Center, Minneapolis, MN, USA; Department of Medicine, University
of Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) predicts cardiovascular risk in hypertensive
patients. We analyzed baseline/follow-up electrocardiographies in 26,376
Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial
participants randomized to amlodipine (A), lisinopril (L), or chlorthalidone (C).
Prevalent/incident LVH was examined using continuous and categorical
classifications of Cornell voltage. At 2 and 4 years, prevalence of LVH in the C 
group (5.57%; 6.14%) was not statistically different from A group (2 years:
5.47%; P = .806, 4 years: 6.54%; P = .857) or L group (2 years: 5.64%; P = .857, 
4 years: 6.50%; P = .430). Incident LVH followed similarly, with no difference at
2 years for C (2.99%) compared to A (2.57%; P = .173) or L (3.16%; P = .605) and 
at 4 years (C = 3.52%, A = 3.29%, L = 3.71%; P = .521 C vs. A, P = .618 C vs. L).
Mean Cornell voltage decreased comparably across treatment groups (Δ baseline, 2 
years = +3 to -27 μV, analysis of variance P = .8612; 4 years = +10 to -17 μV,
analysis of variance P = .9692). We conclude that risk reductions associated with
C treatment in secondary end points of the Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering
Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial cannot be attributed to differential
improvements in electrocardiography LVH.

Copyright © 2016 American Society of Hypertension. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jash.2016.10.010 
PMCID: PMC5161112 [Available on 2017-12-01]
PMID: 27938852  [PubMed - in process]


13. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 5;11(12):e0167528. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167528.
eCollection 2016.

The Association of Family History of Premature Cardiovascular Disease or Diabetes
Mellitus on the Occurrence of Gestational Hypertensive Disease and Diabetes.

Choi DJ(1), Yoon CH(1), Lee H(1), Ahn SY(2), Oh KJ(3), Park HY(4), Lee HY(5), Cho
MC(6), Chung IM(7), Shin MS(8), Park SJ(9), Shim CY(10), Han SW(11), Chae IH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Center, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam,
Korea. (2)MRCC, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea.
(3)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Seoul National University Bundang
Hospital, Seongnam, Korea. (4)Division of Cardiovascular and Rare Diseases,
Center for Biomedical Science, National Institute of Health, Chungbuk, Korea.
(5)Korean Nurses Association, Seoul, Korea. (6)Department of Internal Medicine,
Chungbuk National University, Chungbuk, Korea. (7)Cardiology Division, School of 
Medicine, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Korea. (8)Division of Cardiology,
Department of Internal Medicine, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, Incheon,
Korea. (9)Division of Cardiology, Cardiovascular Imaging Center, Heart Vascular
Stroke Institute, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (10)Cardiology Division, Severance Cardiovascular
Hospital, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea. (11)Department of Cardiovascular
Medicine, Dongtan Sacred Heart Hospital, Hwaseong, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Gestational hypertensive diseases (GHD) and gestational diabetes
mellitus (GDM) increase the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) later in life.
However, the association between gestational medical diseases and familial
history of CVD has not been investigated to date. In the present study, we
examined the association between familial history of CVD and GHD or GDM via
reliable questionnaires in a large cohort of registered nurses.
METHODS: The Korean Nurses' Survey was conducted through a web-based
computer-assisted self-interview, which was developed through consultation with
cardiologists, gynecologists, and statisticians. We enrolled a total of 9,989
female registered nurses who reliably answered the questionnaires including
family history of premature CVD (FHpCVD), hypertension (FHH), and diabetes
mellitus (FHDM) based on their medical knowledge. Either multivariable logistic
regression analysis or generalized estimation equation was used to clarify the
effect of positive family histories on GHD and GDM in subjects or at each
repeated pregnancy in an individual.
RESULTS: In this survey, 3,695 subjects had at least 1 pregnancy and 8,783
cumulative pregnancies. Among them, 247 interviewees (6.3%) experienced GHD and
120 (3.1%) experienced GDM. In a multivariable analysis adjusted for age,
obstetric, and gynecologic variables, age at the first pregnancy over 35 years
(adjusted OR 1.61, 95% CI 1.02-2.43) and FHpCVD (adjusted OR 1.60, 95% CI
1.16-2.22) were risk factors for GHD in individuals, whereas FHH was not. FHDM
and history of infertility therapy were risk factors for GDM in individuals
(adjusted OR 2.68, 95% CI 1.86-3.86; 1.84, 95% CI 1.05-3.23, respectively). In
any repeated pregnancies in an individual, age at the current pregnancy and at
the first pregnancy, and FHpCVD were risk factors for GHD, while age at the
current pregnancy, history of infertility therapy, and FHDM were risk factors for
GDM.
CONCLUSIONS: The FHpCVD and FHDM are significantly associated with GHD and GDM,
respectively. Meticulous family histories should be obtained, and women with
family histories of these conditions should be carefully monitored during
pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167528 
PMCID: PMC5137894
PMID: 27918585  [PubMed - in process]


14. J Am Heart Assoc. 2016 Oct 26;5(11). pii: e003433.

Irisin Lowers Blood Pressure by Improvement of Endothelial Dysfunction via
AMPK-Akt-eNOS-NO Pathway in the Spontaneously Hypertensive Rat.

Fu J(1), Han Y(1), Wang J(1), Liu Y(1), Zheng S(1), Zhou L(2), Jose PA(3), Zeng
C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Daping Hospital, Chongqing Institute of Cardiology, 
The Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China. (2)Department of
Cardiology, Daping Hospital, Chongqing Institute of Cardiology, The Third
Military Medical University, Chongqing, China chunyuzeng01@163.com
zhoulin@mail.tmmu.com.cn. (3)Division of Renal Diseases & Hypertension,
Department of Medicine, The George Washington University School of Medicine &
Health Sciences, Washington, DC.

BACKGROUND: Exercise is a major nonpharmacological treatment for hypertension,
but its underlying mechanisms are still not completely elucidated. Irisin, a
polypeptide containing 112 amino acids, which is secreted mainly by skeletal
muscle cells during exercise, exerts a protective role in metabolic diseases,
such as diabetes mellitus and obesity. Because of the close relationship between 
irisin and metabolic diseases, we hypothesized that irisin may play a role in the
regulation of blood pressure.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Blood pressures of male Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and
spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) were monitored through the carotid artery.
Our study found that acute intravenous injection of irisin reduced blood pressure
in SHRs, but not WKY rats. Irisin, by itself, had no direct vasorelaxing effect
in phenylephrine-preconstricted mesenteric arteries from SHRs. However, irisin
augmented the acetylcholine-induced vasorelaxation in mesenteric arteries from
SHRs that could be reversed by Nω-nitro-l-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME;
100 μmol/L), indicating a role of nitric oxide (NO) in this action. Indeed,
irisin increased NO production and phosphorylation of endothelial nirtic oxide
synthase (eNOS) in endothelial cells. 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) was 
involved in the vasorelaxing effect of irisin because compound C (20 μmol/L), an 
AMPK inhibitor, blocked the irisin-mediated increase in phosphorylation of eNOS
and protein kinase B (Akt) in endothelial cells and vasodilation in mesenteric
arteries.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that acute administration of irisin lowers blood
pressure of SHRs by amelioration of endothelial dysfunction of the mesenteric
artery through the AMPK-Akt-eNOS-NO signaling pathway.

© 2016 The Authors. Published on behalf of the American Heart Association, Inc., 
by Wiley Blackwell.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.116.003433 
PMCID: PMC5210324
PMID: 27912206  [PubMed - in process]


15. J Hypertens. 2017 Jan;35(1):154-161.

Annexin A5 in treated hypertensive patients and its association with target organ
damage.

Maloberti A(1), Meani P, Vallerio P, Varrenti M, Casadei F, Musca F, Facchetti R,
Di Blasio AM, Ravassa S, Mancia G, Giannattasio C.

Author information: 
(1)aCardiology IV, 'A. De Gasperis' Department, ASTT Ospedale Niguarda Ca'
GrandabSchool of Medicine and Surgery Department, Milano-Bicocca
UniversitycItalian Auxologic Institute, Milan, ItalydProgram of Cardiovascular
Diseases, Centre for Applied Medical Research, IdiSNA-Navarra Institute for
Health Research, Pamplona, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: Annexin A5 (AnxA5) has been previously linked to the presence of
carotid and cardiac target organ damage (TOD) in the context of heart failure and
rheumatologic patients. However, information is scant in the context of
hypertension. Aim of our study was to evaluate AnxA5 in treated hypertension
patients compared with normotensive controls and to determine whether it is
associated with vascular and heart TOD evaluated as arterial stiffness, carotid
plaque and left ventricular hypertrophy.
METHODS: We enrolled 123 consecutive treated hypertension and 124 normotensive
controls. TOD was evaluated as pulse wave velocity (PWV, complior), left
ventricular hypertrophy (echocardiography) and intima-media thickness and carotid
plaque presence (ecographic methods). AnxA5 levels was dosed and compared in
patients with and without hypertension and with and without TOD.
RESULTS: With similar age hypertension patients showed higher SBP, DBP and AnxA5 
levels (13.9 ± 11.1 vs 10.1 ± 8.4 ng/ml, P < 0.001) compared with controls.
Regarding TOD hypertension showed higher PWV (8.5 ± 1.8 vs 7.6 ± 1.5 m/s,
P < 0.001) and LVMI (121.7 ± 29.3 vs 113.5 ± 21.1 g/m, P < 0.05), whereas carotid
intima-media thickness was superimposable. AnxA5 correlates with PWV (r = 0.13,
P < 0.05) and DBP (r = 0.15, P < 0.01), whereas it has never been found as a
significant independent predictor of TOD in linear regression analysis.
CONCLUSION: Our data have shown that AnxA5 levels are increased in treated
hypertension patients. In this condition, it is probably released in the plasma
as a defensive mechanism through its anti-inflammatory and anticoagulants
effects. We found a significant association with arterial stiffness, but AnxA5
was not found to be a significant predictor of TOD.

DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000001143 
PMID: 27906841  [PubMed - in process]


16. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. 2016 Nov 24. [Epub ahead of print]

Role of corin in the regulation of blood pressure.

Li H(1), Zhang Y, Wu Q.

Author information: 
(1)aCyrus Tang Hematology Center, MOE Engineering Center of Hematological
Disease, and Collaborative Innovation Center of Hematology, Soochow University,
Suzhou, China bMolecular Cardiology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Corin is a transmembrane protease that activates atrial
natriuretic peptide (ANP), an important hormone in regulating salt-water balance 
and blood pressure. This review focuses on the regulation of corin function and
potential roles of corin defects in hypertensive, heart, and renal diseases.
RECENT FINDINGS: Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin-6 has been identified as 
a primary enzyme that converts zymogen corin to an active protease. Genetic
variants that impair corin intracellular trafficking, cell surface expression,
and zymogen activation have been found in patients with hypertension, cardiac
hypertrophy, and pre-eclampsia. Reduced corin expression has been detected in
animal models of cardiomyopathies and in human failing hearts. Low levels of
circulating soluble corin have been reported in patients with heart disease and
stroke. Corin, ANP and natriuretic peptide receptor-A mRNAs, and proteins have
been colocalized in human renal segments, suggesting a corin-ANP autocrine
function in the kidney.
SUMMARY: Corin is a key enzyme in the natriuretic peptide system. The latest
findings indicate that corin-mediated ANP production may act in a tissue-specific
manner to regulate cardiovascular and renal function. Corin defects may
contribute to major diseases such as hypertension, heart failure, pre-eclampsia, 
and kidney disease.

DOI: 10.1097/MNH.0000000000000297 
PMID: 27898523  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


17. J Clin Diagn Res. 2016 Oct;10(10):BC01-BC04. Epub 2016 Oct 1.

Evaluation of Lipid Profile and Apolipoproteins in Essential Hypertensive
Patients.

Nayak P(1), Panda S(2), Thatoi PK(3), Rattan R(2), Mohapatra S(4), Mishra PK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Senior Resident, Department of Biochemistry, SCB Medical College , Cuttack,
Odisha, India . (2)Assistant Professor, Department of Biochemistry, SCB Medical
College , Cuttack, Odisha, India . (3)Assistant Professor, Department of
Medicine, SCB Medical College , Cuttack, Odisha, India . (4)Professor and Head,
Department of Biochemistry, SCB Medical College , Cuttack, Odisha, India .
(5)Professor and Head, Department of Biochemistry, MKCG Medical College ,
Berhampur, Odisha, India .

INTRODUCTION: Essential hypertension is one of the most common diseases of the
Indian population contributing greatly to the morbidity, mortality and economic
burden. It has a strong association with cardiovascular disease and abnormal
lipid metabolism. Not only the traditional lipid parameters, but also the novel
lipid components like Apo A1 and Apo B100 also have been identified to play a
role.
AIM: The present study was done to evaluate serum lipid profile and Apo A1, Apo B
100 in essential hypertensive patients and correlate their values with the degree
of hypertension.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fasting samples from 55 age and sex matched controls and
55 essential hypertensives were tested for plasma glucose, serum urea,
creatinine, lipid profile, apo A1 and apo B100. The cases were subclassified
based on the severity of hypertension according to JNC criteria.
RESULTS: The study showed a significantly raised value for serum cholesterol,
triacylglycerol, Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL), Very Low-Density Lipoprotein
(VLDL) in the hypertensive patients than the control group whereas serum
High-Density Lipoprotein (HDL) registered a fall in the cases. Apo A1 revealed a 
non-significant fall in the hypertensive patients. In contrast, there was a rise 
in the serum apo B100 in the cases. Apo B100/apo A1 ratio was significantly
raised in both stage I and stage II hypertensive patients in comparision to the
controls. When correlated, serum apo A1 revealed a negative association where as 
serum apo B 100 showed a positive association with systolic and diastolic bloood 
pressure. Both LDL/HDL and apoB100/apo A1 and apo B100 revealed a significant
positive association with both SBP and DBP. However, apoB100/apo A1 revealed a
more positive association in comparision to LDL/HDL ratio (r=0.749, p<0.001,
r=0.756, p<0.001 vs r=0.336, p<0.000, r=0.312, p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Apo B100/apoA1 has emerged as an important complementary parameter in
addition to traditional lipid ratio for evaluation of risk for future
cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2016/20985.8626 
PMCID: PMC5121668
PMID: 27891330  [PubMed - in process]


18. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2016;2016:6949020. Epub 2016 Nov 3.

(-)-Epicatechin Prevents Blood Pressure Increase and Reduces Locomotor
Hyperactivity in Young Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats.

Kluknavsky M(1), Balis P(1), Puzserova A(1), Radosinska J(2), Berenyiova A(1),
Drobna M(1), Lukac S(3), Muchova J(4), Bernatova I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Normal and Pathological Physiology, Centre of Excellence for
Examination of Regulatory Role of Nitric Oxide in Civilization Diseases, Slovak
Academy of Sciences, Bratislava, Slovakia. (2)Institute of Physiology, Faculty of
Medicine, Comenius University, Bratislava, Slovakia; Institute for Heart
Research, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Bratislava, Slovakia. (3)Institute of
Medical Physics, Biophysics, Informatics and Telemedicine, Faculty of Medicine,
Comenius University, Bratislava, Slovakia. (4)Institute of Medical Chemistry,
Biochemistry and Clinical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Comenius University,
Bratislava, Slovakia.

This study investigated the effects of subchronic (-)-epicatechin (Epi) treatment
on locomotor activity and hypertension development in young spontaneously
hypertensive rats (SHR). Epi was administered in drinking water (100 mg/kg/day)
for 2 weeks. Epi significantly prevented the development of hypertension (138 ± 2
versus 169 ± 5 mmHg, p < 0.001) and reduced total distance traveled in the
open-field test (22 ± 2 versus 35 ± 4 m, p < 0.01). In blood, Epi significantly
enhanced erythrocyte deformability, increased total antioxidant capacity, and
decreased nitrotyrosine concentration. In the aorta, Epi significantly increased 
nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) activity and elevated the NO-dependent
vasorelaxation. In the left heart ventricle, Epi increased NOS activity without
altering gene expressions of nNOS, iNOS, and eNOS. Moreover, Epi reduced
superoxide production in the left heart ventricle and the aorta. In the brain,
Epi increased nNOS gene expression (in the brainstem and cerebellum) and eNOS
expression (in the cerebellum) but had no effect on overall NOS activity. In
conclusion, Epi prevented the development of hypertension and reduced locomotor
hyperactivity in young SHR. These effects resulted from improved cardiovascular
NO bioavailability concurrently with increased erythrocyte deformability, without
changes in NO production in the brain.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/6949020 
PMCID: PMC5112311
PMID: 27885334  [PubMed - in process]


19. Med Clin North Am. 2017 Jan;101(1):43-52. doi: 10.1016/j.mcna.2016.08.002. Epub
2016 Oct 27.

The Hypertensive Myocardium: From Microscopic Lesions to Clinical Complications
and Outcomes.

Moreno MU(1), Eiros R(2), Gavira JJ(3), Gallego C(4), González A(1), Ravassa
S(1), López B(1), Beaumont J(1), San José G(1), Díez J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Program of Cardiovascular Diseases, Center of Applied Medical Research,
University of Navarra, Edificio CIMA, Av. Pío XII, 55, Pamplona 31008, Spain;
IdiSNA, Navarra Institute for Health Resarch, Pamplona, Spain. (2)Department of
Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery, University Clinic, University of Navarra, Av. Pío
XII, 36, Pamplona 31008, Spain. (3)Department of Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery, 
University Clinic, University of Navarra, Av. Pío XII, 36, Pamplona 31008, Spain;
IdiSNA, Navarra Institute for Health Resarch, Pamplona, Spain. (4)Program of
Cardiovascular Diseases, Center of Applied Medical Research, University of
Navarra, Edificio CIMA, Av. Pío XII, 55, Pamplona 31008, Spain; Programa de
Cardiología Clínica, Clínica CardioVID, Universidad Pontificia Bolivariana, Calle
78B 75-21, Medellín, Colombia. (5)Program of Cardiovascular Diseases, Center of
Applied Medical Research, University of Navarra, Edificio CIMA, Av. Pío XII, 55, 
Pamplona 31008, Spain; Department of Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery, University
Clinic, University of Navarra, Av. Pío XII, 36, Pamplona 31008, Spain; IdiSNA,
Navarra Institute for Health Resarch, Pamplona, Spain. Electronic address:
jadimar@unav.es.

The chronic hemodynamic load imposed by hypertension on the left ventricle leads 
to lesions in the myocardium that result in structural remodeling, which provides
support for alterations in cardiac function, perfusion, and electrical activity
that adversely influence the clinical evolution of hypertensive heart disease.
Management must include detecting, reducing, and reversing left ventricular
hypertrophy, as well as the detection and repair of microscopic lesions
responsible for myocardial remodeling. Reducing the burden associated with
hypertensive heart disease can be targeted using personalized treatment. The
noninvasive, biomarker-mediated identification of subsets of patients with
hypertensive heart disease is essential to provide personalized treatment.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcna.2016.08.002 
PMID: 27884234  [PubMed - in process]


20. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2016 Nov 22. [Epub ahead of print]

The Relationship Between Aortic Root Size and Hypertension: An Unsolved
Conundrum.

Mulè G(1), Nardi E(2), Morreale M(2), Castiglia A(2), Geraci G(2), Altieri D(2), 
Cacciatore V(2), Schillaci M(2), Vaccaro F(2), Cottone S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento Biomedico di Medicina Interna, e Specialistica (DIBIMIS),
Cattedra di Nefrologia, European Society of Hypertension Excellence Centre,
Università di Palermo, Palermo, Italy. giuseppe.mule@unipa.it. (2)Dipartimento
Biomedico di Medicina Interna, e Specialistica (DIBIMIS), Cattedra di Nefrologia,
European Society of Hypertension Excellence Centre, Università di Palermo,
Palermo, Italy.

Thoracic aortic aneurysms rupture and dissection are among the most devastating
vascular diseases, being characterized by elevated mortality, despite
improvements in diagnostic imaging and surgical techniques.An increased aortic
root diameter (ARD) represents the main risk factor for thoracic aortic
dissection and rupture and for aortic valve regurgitation.Even though arterial
hypertension is commonly regarded as a predisposing condition for the development
of thoracic aorta aneurysms, the role of blood pressure (BP) as determinant of
aortic root enlargement is still controversial. The use of different methods for 
indexation of ARD may have in part contributed to the heterogeneous findings
obtained in the investigations exploring the relationships between ARD and BP.
Indeed, the best methods for ARD indexation, as well as the normal values of
aortic root size, are still a matter of debate.Several non-hemodynamic factors
influence ARD, including age, gender, and anthropometric variables, such as
height, weight and their derivatives body surface area (BSA) and body mass index.
Of these factors, anthropometric variables have the greatest impact.Several
studies documented an association between ARD enlargement, assessed by
echocardiography, and some indices of hypertensive target organ damage such as
left ventricular hypertrophy, diastolic dysfunction, and carotid intima-media
thickening. Recently, we found that ARD, expressed either as absolute values or
normalized for BSA (ARD/BSA) or height (ARD/H), was significantly greater in
hypertensive subjects with chronic kidney disease (CKD) when compared to their
counterparts with normal renal function. Moreover, at univariate analyses
estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) showed significant inverse
correlations with ARD not indexed and with ARD/BSA and ARD/H. Taking into account
the effect of age, sex, duration of hypertension and other potentially
confounding factors, in multiple regression analyses, only the association of GFR
with ARD/H and that between GFR and ARD/BSA remained statistically significant.
The receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis revealed that an estimated
GFR of about 50 ml/min/1.73 m(2) represents the better threshold to distinguish
hypertensive patients with dilated aortic root from those with a normal one.Some 
population-based studies showed that an enlarged ARD might predict an adverse
prognosis, even in absence of aneurysmatic alterations.In the Cardiovascular
Health Study, a dilated aortic root was independently associated with an
increased risk for stroke, cardiovascular and total mortality in both sexes and
with incident congestive heart failure only in men. The relationship between ARD 
and heart failure has been observed also in the Framingham Heart Study. More
recently, the PAMELA (Pressioni Arteriose Monitorate E Loro Associazioni) study
demonstrated an independent relationship of ARD/H with incident cardiovascular
morbidity and mortality.Although the relationship between BP and aortic root size
is still a matter of debate, increasing evidence seems to support the notion that
aortic root dilatation, even in absence of aneurysmatic alterations, may be
regarded as an hypertensive organ damage paralleling other preclinical markers
whose unfavourable prognostic significance is firmly established. Future studies 
are needed to assess whether or not antihypertensive therapy is able to reduce
aortic root dimension and the increased risk associated with its enlargement.

DOI: 10.1007/5584_2016_86 
PMID: 27873227  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


21. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2016 Nov 21;16(1):232.

Patients with HFpEF and HFrEF have different clinical characteristics but similar
prognosis: a retrospective cohort study.

Abebe TB(1), Gebreyohannes EA(2), Tefera YG(2), Abegaz TM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and
Health Science, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia. Befekadutamrat@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and
Health Science, University of Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Globally, heart failure (HF) has been recognized as one of the major 
cardiovascular disorder with high morbidity, mortality and considerable social
impact. In Sub Saharan African countries, HF has turned out as a leading form of 
cardiovascular diseases, and has considerable socioeconomic impact. However,
there are differences in clinical characteristics and survival status among
patients with preserved (HFpEF) and reduced (HFrEF) ejection fraction. The aim of
this study is to outline the clinical characteristics and medication profile,
assess the survival status and prognostic factors of Ethiopian HF patients with
HFrEF and HFpEF.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was carried out and we employed medical
records of patient's, admitted as a result of HF to the University of Gondar
Referral Hospital in the period between December 02, 2010 and December 01, 2015
due to HF. Kaplan Meier curve was used to analyze the survival status and log
rank test was used to compare the curves. Cox regression was used to analyze
independent predictors of mortality in all HF patients.
RESULTS: Of the 850 patients who were admitted due to HF, 311 patients met the
inclusion criteria. Majority of the patients had HFpEF (52.73%) and tend to be
women (76.22%). They predominantly had etiologies of valvular and hypertensive
heart diseases, and took calcium channel blockers and anticoagulants. Conversely,
patients with HFrEF had etiologies of ischemic heart disease and dilated
cardiomyopathy and were prescribed angiotensine converting inhibitors (ACEI) and 
beta blockers. Kaplan Meier curves and Log rank test (p = 0.807) showed that
there was no statistically significant difference in the mortality difference
among patients with HFpEF and HFrEF. On the other hand, Cox regression analysis
showed advanced age, lower sodium level, higher creatinine level and absence of
medications like ACEI, spironolactone and statins independently predicted
mortality in all HF patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Different clinical characteristics were found in both groups of HF
patients. There was no difference in survival outcome between patients with HFrEF
and HFpEF.

DOI: 10.1186/s12872-016-0418-9 
PMCID: PMC5117494
PMID: 27871223  [PubMed - in process]


22. Int J Cardiol. 2017 Feb 1;228:375-379. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2016.11.140. Epub
2016 Nov 9.

Diagnostic accuracy of CT for the detection of left ventricular myocardial
fibrosis in various myocardial diseases.

Takaoka H(1), Funabashi N(2), Uehara M(1), Iida Y(3), Kobayashi Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Chiba University Graduate School of
Medicine, Chiba, Japan. (2)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Chiba
University Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan. Electronic address:
nobusada@w8.dion.ne.jp. (3)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Keio University,
Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of computed tomography (CT) for the 
detection of myocardial fibrosis, we compared the frequency of abnormal late
enhancement (LE) in left ventricular myocardium (LVM) on CT with that on
gadolinium-enhanced cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) in patients with various
myocardial diseases.
METHODS: Fifty-six patients with suspected various myocardial diseases (19 with
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, 3 with cardiac amyloidosis, 3 with post myocarditis,
2 with dilated cardiomyopathy, 2 with cardiac sarcoidosis, 2 with cardiac tumor, 
2 with previous myocardial infarction, 2 with hypertensive heart disease)
underwent 1.5-T CMR and cardiac CT within 2months without clinical accidents.
RESULTS: LE on LVM was detected in 31 and 31 patients on CT and CMR,
respectively, and in 192 and 197 LVM segments on CT and CMR, respectively, among 
a total of 952 LVM segments. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative 
predictive values, and consistency for detection of LE on CT in comparison with
CMR were 90, 89, 90, 89 and 89%, respectively, on patient-based analysis, and 67,
92, 68, 91 and 87%, respectively, on segment-based analysis. Inter-observer
agreement for detection of LE on CT was 0.71 (kappa coefficient), and it was
significantly lower than that on CMR (0.82) on segment-based analysis (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with CMR, diagnostic accuracy of CT for the evaluation of
LE in LVM in patients with myocardial diseases was relatively higher on
patient-based analysis, but was limited on segment-based analysis, and the
inter-observer agreement on CT was significantly lower than that on CMR.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2016.11.140 
PMID: 27866030  [PubMed - in process]


23. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2016 Nov 19. [Epub ahead of print]

Pathophysiological Mechanisms and Correlates of Therapeutic Pharmacological
Interventions in Essential Arterial Hypertension.

Maranta F(1), Spoladore R(1), Fragasso G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Cardiology, Heart Failure Unit, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific
Institute, Milan, Italy. (2)Clinical Cardiology, Heart Failure Unit, IRCCS San
Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy. fragasso.gabriele@hsr.it.

Treating arterial hypertension (HT) remains a hard task. The hypertensive patient
is often a subject with several comorbidities and metabolic abnormalities.
Clinicians everyday have to choose the right drug for the single patient among
the different classes of antihypertensives. Apart from lowering blood pressure, a
main therapeutic target should be that of counteracting all the possible
pathophysiological mechanisms involved in HT itself and in existing/potential
comorbidities. All the ancillary positive and negative effects of the
administered drugs should be considered: in particular, since hypertensive
patients are often glucose intolerant/diabetic, carrier of serum lipids disorder,
have already developed atherosclerotic diseases and endothelial dysfunction, they
should not be treated with drugs negatively interfering with these conditions but
with molecules that, if possible, improve them. The main pathophysiological
mechanisms and correlates of therapeutic pharmacological interventions in
essential HT are reviewed here.

DOI: 10.1007/5584_2016_169 
PMID: 27864806  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


24. Cardiovasc Ther. 2017 Feb;35(1):47-54. doi: 10.1111/1755-5922.12235.

Efficacy and safety of two dosages of canrenone as add-on therapy in hypertensive
patients taking ace-inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers and
hydrochlorothiazide at maximum dosage in a randomized clinical trial: The
ESCAPE-IT trial.

Derosa G(1,)(2,)(3), Maffioli P(1,)(2,)(3), D'Avino M(4), Sala C(5), Mugellini
A(1), Vulpis V(6), Felis S(7), Guasti L(8), Sarzani R(9), Bestetti A(10), Vanasia
M(10), Gaudio G(11); ESCAPE-IT Trial Investigators group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Therapeutics, University of Pavia, Pavia, 
Italy. (2)Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico S.
Matteo, Pavia, Italy. (3)Centre for Prevention, Surveillance, Diagnosis and
Treatment of Rare Diseases, Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico S. Matteo, Pavia, Italy.
(4)Unit for the treatment of Arterial Hypertension, Ospedale Cardarelli, Napoli, 
Italy. (5)Unit of Cardiovascular Diseases, Fondazione Policlinico Milano, Milano,
Italy. (6)Unit for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Arterial Hypertension,
Department of Internal Medicine, Policlinico di Bari, Bari, Italy. (7)Cardiology 
Unit, Ospedale Garibaldi, Catania, Italy. (8)Research Center on Dyslipidemia,
Internal Medicine 1, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy. (9)Center for the
treatment of Hypertension and Cardiovascular Diseases, Ospedali Riuniti di
Torrette, Ancona, Italy. (10)THERABEL GiEnne Pharma, Milano, Italy. (11)Internal 
Medicine Division, Ospedale Angelo Bellini, Somma Lombardo, Varese, Italy.

AIM: To evaluate the effects of canrenone as add-on therapy in patients already
treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-I) or angiotensin II
receptor blockers (ARBs) and hydrochlorothiazide at the maximum dosage (25 mg/d).
METHOD: In this randomized, open-label, controlled trial, we enrolled 175
Caucasian patients with essential hypertension not well controlled by concomitant
ACE-I or ARBs and hydrochlorothiazide. At baseline, 87 patients (57 males and 30 
females) were randomized to add canrenone 50 mg, and 88 (56 males and 32 females)
patients to canrenone 100 mg, once a day, for 3 months. At baseline and after
3 months, we evaluated blood pressure (BP), pulse pressure (PP), heart rate (HR),
fasting plasma glucose (FPG), homeostasis model assessment insulin (HOMA Index), 
lipid profile, electrolytes, uric acid, estimated glomerular filtration rate
(eGFR), plasma urea, aldosterone, B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), and
galectin-3.
RESULTS: Blood pressure decreased with both dosages of canrenone, with a better
effect with canrenone 100 mg (-20.26 vs -23.68 mm Hg for SBP, and -10.58 vs
-12.38 mm Hg for DBP), without a clinically relevant increase in potassium
levels. We did not observe any differences regarding FPG or HOMA Index, nor of
lipid profile, with the exception of triglycerides, which increased compared to
baseline with canrenone 50 mg (+0.25 vs +0.34 mEq/L). Creatinine slightly
increased with canrenone 100 mg (+0.02 vs +0.05 mg/dL), although no variations of
eGFR were observed in neither groups. There was an increase in aldosterone levels
with canrenone 50 mg. No changes in BNP or galectin-3 were recorded.
CONCLUSION: Both canrenone dosages gave a decrease in blood pressure, with a
better effect with the higher dose, with only a slight increase in potassium and 
creatinine levels, which were not clinically relevant. Clinical Trials
Registration Eudract number: 2010-023606-13; ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02687178.

© 2016 The Authors. Cardiovascular Therapeutics Published by John Wiley & Sons
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1755-5922.12235 
PMID: 27860389  [PubMed - in process]


25. Eur J Heart Fail. 2016 Nov 17. doi: 10.1002/ejhf.664. [Epub ahead of print]

Different correlates but similar prognostic implications for right ventricular
dysfunction in heart failure patients with reduced or preserved ejection
fraction.

Ghio S(1), Guazzi M(2), Scardovi AB(3), Klersy C(4), Clemenza F(5), Carluccio
E(6), Temporelli PL(7), Rossi A(8), Faggiano P(9), Traversi E(10), Vriz O(11),
Dini FL(12); all investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Fondazione IRCCS, Policlinico San Matteo, Piazza Golgi
1, 27100, Pavia, Italy. (2)Heart Failure Unit and Cardiopulmonary Laboratory,
Cardiology, IRCCS, Policlinico San Donato University Hospital, Milano, Italy.
(3)Cardiologia, Ospedale Santo Spirito, Roma, Italy. (4)Biometry & Statistics,
Fondazione IRCCS, Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy. (5)Cardiology Unit,
Department for the Treatment and Study of Cardiothoracic Diseases and
Cardiothoracic Transplantation, IRCCS-ISMETT, Palermo, Italy. (6)Division of
Cardiology, University of Perugia, School of Medicine, Perugia, Italy.
(7)Division of Cardiology, Fondazione Salvatore Maugeri, IRCCS, Veruno, Italy.
(8)Department of Biomedical and Surgical Sciences, Cardiology Section, University
of Verona, Verona, Italy. (9)Department of Cardiology, Spedali Civili Hospital
and University of Brescia, Italy. (10)Division of Cardiology, Fondazione
Salvatore Maugeri, IRCCS, Montescano, Italy. (11)Cardiology and Emergency
Department, San Antonio Hospital, San Daniele del Friuli, Italy. (12)Cardiac,
Thoracic and Vascular Department, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.

AIMS: To evaluate whether the clinical and echocardiographic correlates and the
prognostic significance of right ventricular (RV) dysfunction are different in
heart failure patients with reduced (HFrEF), mid-range (HFmrEF), or preserved
(HFpEF) left ventricular ejection fraction.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The study included 1663 patients with heart failure caused
by ischaemic or hypertensive heart disease or by idiopathic cardiomyopathy. Left 
ventricular ejection fraction was <40% in 1123 patients (HFrEF), 40-49% in 156
patients (HFmrEF) and ≥50% in 384 patients (HFpEF). Imaging of the right
ventricle was performed by echocardiography; RV function was defined on the basis
of tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) and its normalization for
pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP). All-cause mortality was the endpoint
of survival analysis. Non-sinus rhythm, high heart rate, ischaemic aetiology and 
E-wave deceleration time <140 ms were associated with a reduced TAPSE in HFrEF
patients, whereas PASP >40 mmHg was by far the strongest correlate of a reduced
TAPSE in HFpEF and HFmrEF patients (interaction analysis, P = 0.0011). TAPSE/PASP
proved to be a powerful predictor of prognosis in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The correlates of RV dysfunction differ in HFrEF compared with HFpEF
and HFmrEF patients. Regardless of the extent of LV dysfunction, the TAPSE/PASP
ratio is a powerful independent predictor of prognosis in all heart failure
patients.

© 2016 The Authors. European Journal of Heart Failure © 2016 European Society of 
Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1002/ejhf.664 
PMID: 27860029  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


26. Oncotarget. 2016 Nov 11. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.13308. [Epub ahead of print]

Cigarette smoking reduced renal function deterioration in hypertensive patients
may be mediated by elevated homocysteine.

Huang F(1,)(2), Chen J(2,)(3), Liu X(4), Han F(5), Cai Q(6), Peng G(7), Zhang
K(1,)(2), Chen W(8), Wang J(1,)(2), Huang H(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Malignant Tumor Epigenetics and Gene
Regulation, Department of Cardiology, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou, China. (2)Laboratory of RNA and Major Diseases of Brain
and Heart, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou,
Guangdong, China. (3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial
Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China. (4)Division of Nephrology, 
Department of Internal Medicine, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen
University, Guangzhou, China. (5)Department of Ultrasound, State Key Laboratory
of Oncology in Southern China, Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou,
China. (6)Department of Medical Oncology, Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Center,
Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China. (7)Department of Internal Medicine,
Dongguan Hengli Hospital, Dongguan, China. (8)Department of Biostatistics and
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China.

Elevated homocysteine (HCY) and smoking are both important risk factors for
hypertensive patients. However, whether they have crossing effect on renal
function deterioration of hypertensive patients and what is the underlying
mechanism are unclear. In the present study, 3033 participants diagnosed as
essential hypertension with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR)> 30
ml/min/1.73 m2 from southern China were enrolled in this cross-sectional study.
We collected the demographic and clinical data. In addition, the mediation
effects were analyzed. The results showed that, comparing with non-smokers,
smokers had significant higher levels of HCY (13.10 (11.20-16.87) vs. 11.00
(8.90-13.40) umol/L, P < 0.001) and lower eGFR (79.71 (66.83-91.05) vs. 82.89
(69.80-95.85) ml/min/1.73m2, P < 0.001). HCY levels and smoking were
independently associated with decreased eGFR. Meanwhile, eGFR levels were
significantly negatively correlated with HCY (P < 0.001), and this correlation
might be stronger in current smokers. Current smoker consuming over 20 cigarettes
per day would accelerate early renal function deterioration (OR = 1.859, P =
0.019). The mediation effects analysis further showed that the association
between smoking and renal function deterioration was mediated by HCY. And
elevated HCY was accounted for 56.94% of the estimated causal effect of smoking
on renal function deterioration in hypertensive patients. Our findings indicated 
that cigarette smoking was associated with renal function deterioration in
hypertensive patients, and the association between cigarette smoking and renal
function deterioration was probably mediated by elevated HCY. Therefore,
HCY-lowering therapy may be beneficial for renal function deterioration in
hypertensive smoking patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.13308 
PMID: 27852066  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


27. Korean Circ J. 2016 Nov;46(6):834-840. Epub 2016 Nov 1.

Resting Heart Rate and Aortic Stiffness in Normotensive Adults.

Logan JG(1), Kim SS(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Nursing, University of Virginia, VA, USA. (2)College of Nursing,
Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Large-artery stiffness is an independent predictor of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD), and carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (cfPWV) is 
considered the gold standard measure of arterial stiffness. A resting heart rate 
is an easily measured vital sign that is also associated with CVD morbidity and
mortality. Previous studies have reported the significant relationship of a
resting heart rate with arterial stiffness as measured by cfPWV only in
hypertensive subjects; their relationship in nonhypertensive subjects remains
unknown. The present study, therefore, examined their relationship in
normotensive subjects.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: In 102 healthy Korean Americans between ages 20 and 60
years, their resting heart rate was measured by an automated blood pressure
measuring device after a 10 minute rest in the supine position. Arterial
stiffness was measured by cfPWV using the SphygmoCor device.
RESULTS: The mean resting heart rate of participants (mean age, 39.64 years; 59% 
women) was 61.91 bpm (standard deviation [SD], 9.62 bpm) and mean the cfPWV was
6.99 (SD, 1.14) m/s. A multiple regression analysis showed that a resting heart
rate is a significant predictor of cfPWV after controlling for age, body mass
index, and mean arterial pressure. For one bpm increase of resting heart rate,
cfPWV increased approximately 0.02 m/s.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that a higher resting heart rate is independently
associated with increased arterial stiffness as measured by cfPWV in normotensive
adults. Arterial stiffness may explain the prognostic role of an individual's
heart rate in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.4070/kcj.2016.46.6.834 
PMCID: PMC5099340
PMID: 27826343  [PubMed - in process]


28. Curr Neurovasc Res. 2016 Nov 6. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuro-psychological pattern in patients suffering from Primitive Dilated
Cardiomyopathy with Impairment in Executive Function.

Carbonara R(1), Giardinelli F, Zito A, Piccinelli E, Scicchitano P, Dentamaro I, 
Cortese F, Armenise A, Manca F, De Caro MF, Nazzaro P, Federico F, Guaricci AI,
Laudadio F, Iacoviello M, Ciccone MM.

Author information: 
(1)Emergency and Organ Transplant Department, Cardiology Unit, University of
Bari, Bari, Italy. rossellacarbonara@hotmail.it.

According to the American Heart Association (AHA) , primitive dilated
cardiomyopathy (PDCM) is a "progressive dilation of the left or both ventricles
and a depressed contractility in absence of abnormal load conditions ". It
evolves in progressive heart-failure. The term &quot;cardiogenic dementia&quot;
expresses the intimate connection between heart diseases and cognitive functions.
The association between PDCM and the neuropsychological functions is unclear: the
main pathophysiological hypotheses are cerebral hypoperfusion and cardiogenic
emboli. The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact that the PDCM has on
neuropsychological decline and to detect early echocardiographic markers of
cognitive impairment. We enrolled 235 patients: 168 suffering from PDCM as sample
group and 67 suffering from hypertensive dilated cardiomyopathy (HTCM) as control
group. They underwent a cardiology examination and a neuropsychological
assessment . A p &lt;0.05 was considered significant. The two groups showed no
differences in risk factors, demographic and cardiovascular parameters (except
for dimensions of aortic root, left atrium and ventricle which appeared greater
in PDCM and left ventricle ejection fraction that appeared lower in PDCM). Among 
administered neuropsychological tests, only the Stroop Test (which explores
executive and attentive functions) appeared significantly lower in PDCM (p =
0.029). Moreover left ventricle end-diastolic diameter was inversely related to
the Stroop Test Score (r= -0.32). PDCM doesn't appear to be at the basis of a
generalized cognitive and neuropsychological decline. Only the executive
functions seem impaired in PDCM. Left ventricle dilation seems to be associated
to attentive and executive functions decline.


PMID: 27823553  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


29. Int J Cardiol. 2017 Jan 15;227:751-756. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2016.10.062. Epub
2016 Oct 27.

Cardiovascular outcomes of lifestyle intervention in hypertensive patients with
antihypertensive agents.

Hua K(1), Hao G(2), Li W(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Beijing Institute of Heart, Lung and Blood
Vessel Diseases, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing,
100029, China. (2)State Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Disease, Fuwai Hospital,
National Center for Cardiovascular Diseases, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences,
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100037, China. (3)State Key Laboratory of
Cardiovascular Disease, Fuwai Hospital, National Center for Cardiovascular
Diseases, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Peking Union Medical College,
Beijing 100037, China. Electronic address: liwei_1266@126.com.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: This study aims to investigate whether changes in
lifestyle, added to the antihypertensive treatment, could translate to changes in
cardiovascular (CV) morbidity and mortality in hypertensive patients.
METHODS: Between October 2007 and November 2008, men or women (50-79years) were
enrolled randomly in this study when their BP was 140/90-179/109mmHg with a
2-weeks run-in stage firstly. All participants had at least one additional CV
risk factor, indicated by a history of stroke, myocardial infarction (MI), etc.
RESULTS: 12,245 (90.4%) patients were eligible for our analysis. We assigned them
to the lifestyle intervention group (5225) or to control group (7020). In the end
of the study, weight loss at least 1kg of the participants of the intervention
group of accounted for 33.2%, control group was 24.9 (P<0.001). Salt intake more 
than 6g of the participants accounted for 29.4% in the intervention group, 38.4% 
in the control group (P<0.001). The composite CV events which include non-fatal
stroke, MI and CV death, happened in 133 (2.2%) participants of intervention
group and 177 (2.4%) in the control group. However, the improvement of composite 
CV events reduced 55% (adjusted HR=0.45, 95% CI: [0.32,0.63]), and decreased by
55% (HR=0.45, 95% CI: [0.37,0.63]) for all CV events.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect of advised only lifestyle intervention used in our study 
is minor for CV prevention. However, the effect of improvement of lifestyle on CV
prevention is indisputable even in hypertensives who receive a-hypertension drug 
treatment.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2016.10.062 
PMID: 27810294  [PubMed - in process]


30. Circulation. 2016 Nov 1;134(18):1353-1368. Epub 2016 Sep 27.

Genetic and Pharmacologic Inhibition of the Chemokine Receptor CXCR2 Prevents
Experimental Hypertension and Vascular Dysfunction.

Wang L(1), Zhao XC(1), Cui W(1), Ma YQ(1), Ren HL(1), Zhou X(1), Fassett J(1),
Yang YZ(1), Chen Y(1), Xia YL(1), Du J(1), Li HH(2).

Author information: 
(1)From Department of Cardiology, Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, First
Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical University, Dalian, China (L.W., X.-C.Z.,
Y.Z.Z., Y.-L.X., H.-H.L.); Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Key Laboratory of
Remodeling-Related Cardiovascular Diseases, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 
China (W.C., J.D.); Tianjin Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Remodeling and
Target Organ Injury, Pingjin Hospital Heart Center, Tianjin, China (Y.-Q.M.,
X.Z.); Department of Vascular Surgery, Beijing Chao-Yang Hospital, Capital
Medical University, Beijing, China (H.-L.R.); Department of Pharmacology and
Toxicology, University of Graz, Graz, Austria (J.F.); Cardiovascular Division,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN (Y.C.); and Department of Nutrition and 
Food Hygiene, School of Public Health, Advanced Institute of Medical Sciences,
Dalian Medical University, Dalian, China (H.-H.L.). (2)From Department of
Cardiology, Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, First Affiliated Hospital of
Dalian Medical University, Dalian, China (L.W., X.-C.Z., Y.Z.Z., Y.-L.X.,
H.-H.L.); Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Key Laboratory of Remodeling-Related
Cardiovascular Diseases, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China (W.C., J.D.);
Tianjin Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Remodeling and Target Organ Injury,
Pingjin Hospital Heart Center, Tianjin, China (Y.-Q.M., X.Z.); Department of
Vascular Surgery, Beijing Chao-Yang Hospital, Capital Medical University,
Beijing, China (H.-L.R.); Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University
of Graz, Graz, Austria (J.F.); Cardiovascular Division, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN (Y.C.); and Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, School of
Public Health, Advanced Institute of Medical Sciences, Dalian Medical University,
Dalian, China (H.-H.L.). hhli1935@aliyun.com yunlong_xia@126.com.

BACKGROUND: The recruitment of leukocytes to the vascular wall is a key step in
hypertension development. Chemokine receptor CXCR2 mediates inflammatory cell
chemotaxis in several diseases. However, the role of CXCR2 in hypertension
development and the underlying mechanisms remain unknown.
METHODS: Angiotensin II (490 ng·kg(-1)·min(-1)) or deoxycorticosterone acetate
(DOCA) salt-induced mouse hypertensive models in genetic ablation, pharmacologic 
inhibition of CXCR2, and adoptive bone marrow transfer mice were used to
determine the role of CXCR2 in hypertension (measured by radiotelemetry and
tail-cuff system), inflammation (verified by flow cytometry and quantitative
real-time polymerase chain reaction [PCR] analysis), vascular remodeling (studied
by haematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome staining), vascular dysfunction 
(assessed by aortic ring), and oxidative stress (indicated by nicotinamide
adenine dinucleotide phosphate [NADPH] oxidase activity, dihydroethidium
staining, and quantitative real-time PCR analysis). Moreover, the blood CXCR2(+) 
cells in normotensive controls and hypertension patients were analyzed by flow
cytometry.
RESULTS: Angiotensin II significantly upregulated the expression of CXCR2 mRNA
and protein and increased the number of CD45(+) CXCR2(+) cells in mouse aorta
(n=8 per group). Selective CXCR2 knockout (CXCR2(-/-)) or pharmacological
inhibition of CXCR2 markedly reduced angiotensin II- or DOCA-salt-induced blood
pressure elevation, aortic thickness and collagen deposition, accumulation of
proinflammatory cells into the vascular wall, and expression of cytokines (n=8
per group). CXCR2 inhibition also ameliorated angiotensin II-induced vascular
dysfunction and reduced vascular superoxide formation, NADPH activity, and
expression of NADPH oxidase subunits (n=6 per group). Bone marrow reconstitution 
of wild-type mice with CXCR2(-/-) bone marrow cells also significantly abolished 
angiotensin II-induced responses (n=6 per group). It is important to note that
CXCR2 blockade reversed established hypertension induced by angiotensin II or
DOCA-salt challenge (n=10 per group). Furthermore, we demonstrated that CXCR2(+) 
proinflammatory cells were higher in hypertensive patients (n=30) compared with
normotensive individuals (n=20).
CONCLUSIONS: Infiltration of CXCR2(+) cells plays a pathogenic role in arterial
hypertension and vascular dysfunction. Inhibition of CXCR2 pathway may represent 
a novel therapeutic approach to treat hypertension.

© 2016 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.115.020754 
PMCID: PMC5084654
PMID: 27678262  [PubMed - in process]


31. J Immunol Res. 2016;2016:4396368. Epub 2016 Oct 3.

The CXCL10/CXCR3 Axis and Cardiac Inflammation: Implications for Immunotherapy to
Treat Infectious and Noninfectious Diseases of the Heart.

Altara R(1), Mallat Z(2), Booz GW(1), Zouein FA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Medicine, University of
Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, MS 39216-4500, USA. (2)Division of
Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB20 SZ, UK; Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale 
(Inserm), Unit 970, Paris Cardiovascular Research Center, 75015 Paris, France.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, American University of Beirut,
Faculty of Medicine, Beirut 1107 2020, Lebanon.

Accumulating evidence reveals involvement of T lymphocytes and adaptive immunity 
in the chronic inflammation associated with infectious and noninfectious diseases
of the heart, including coronary artery disease, Kawasaki disease, myocarditis,
dilated cardiomyopathies, Chagas, hypertensive left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy,
and nonischemic heart failure. Chemokine CXCL10 is elevated in cardiovascular
diseases, along with increased cardiac infiltration of proinflammatory Th1 and
cytotoxic T cells. CXCL10 is a chemoattractant for these T cells and polarizing
factor for the proinflammatory phenotype. Thus, targeting the CXCL10 receptor
CXCR3 is a promising therapeutic approach to treating cardiac inflammation. Due
to biased signaling CXCR3 also couples to anti-inflammatory signaling and
immunosuppressive regulatory T cell formation when activated by CXCL11. Numbers
and functionality of regulatory T cells are reduced in patients with cardiac
inflammation, supporting the utility of biased agonists or biologicals to
simultaneously block the pro-inflammatory and activate the anti-inflammatory
actions of CXCR3. Other immunotherapy strategies to boost regulatory T cell
actions include intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) therapy, adoptive transfer,
immunoadsorption, and low-dose interleukin-2/interleukin-2 antibody complexes.
Pharmacological approaches include sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 1 agonists
and vitamin D supplementation. A combined strategy of switching CXCR3 signaling
from pro- to anti-inflammatory and improving Treg functionality is predicted to
synergistically lessen adverse cardiac remodeling.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/4396368 
PMCID: PMC5066021
PMID: 27795961  [PubMed - in process]


32. Int J Hyg Environ Health. 2016 Nov;219(8):749-758. doi:
10.1016/j.ijheh.2016.09.012. Epub 2016 Sep 19.

Aircraft, road and railway traffic noise as risk factors for heart failure and
hypertensive heart disease-A case-control study based on secondary data.

Seidler A(1), Wagner M(2), Schubert M(2), Dröge P(2), Römer K(3), Pons-Kühnemann 
J(3), Swart E(4), Zeeb H(5), Hegewald J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute and Policlinic of Occupational and Social Medicine, TU Dresden,
Faculty of Medicine Carl Gustav Carus, Dresden, Germany. Electronic address:
Andreas.Seidler@mailbox.tu-dresden.de. (2)Institute and Policlinic of
Occupational and Social Medicine, TU Dresden, Faculty of Medicine Carl Gustav
Carus, Dresden, Germany. (3)Institute of Medical Informatics,
Justus-Liebig-University Gießen, Germany. (4)Institute of Social Medicine and
Health Economics, Otto-von-Guericke-University Magdeburg, Germany. (5)Department 
of Prevention and Evaluation, Leibniz-Institute for Prevention Research and
Epidemiology-BIPS GmbH, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Several studies point to an elevated risk for cardiovascular diseases
induced by traffic noise.
AIMS: We examined the association between aircraft, road traffic and railway
noise and heart failure or hypertensive heart disease (HHD) in a large
case-control study.
METHODS: The study population consisted of individuals that were insured by three
large statutory health insurance funds in the Rhine-Main area of Germany. Based
on insurance claims and prescription data, 104,145 cases of heart failure or HHD 
diagnosed 2006-10 were identified and compared with 654,172 control subjects.
Address-specific exposure to aircraft, road and railway traffic noise in 2005 was
estimated. Odds Ratios were calculated using logistic regression analysis,
adjusted for age, sex, local proportion of persons receiving unemployment
benefits, and individual socioeconomic status (available for 39% of the
individuals).
RESULTS: A statistically significant linear exposure-risk relationship with heart
failure or hypertensive heart disease was found for aircraft traffic noise (1.6% 
risk increase per 10dB increase in the 24-h continuous noise level; 95% CI
0.3-3.0%), road traffic noise (2.4% per 10dB; 95% CI 1.6-3.2%), and railway noise
(3.1% per 10dB; 95% CI 2.2-4.1%). For individuals with 24-h continuous aircraft
noise levels <40dB and nightly maximum aircraft noise levels exceeding 50dB six
or more times, a significantly increased risk was observed. In general, risks of 
HHD were considerably higher than the risks of heart failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Regarding the high prevalence of traffic noise from various sources,
even low risk increases for frequent diseases are relevant for the population as 
a whole.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijheh.2016.09.012 
PMID: 27667192  [PubMed - in process]


33. Lancet. 2017 Dec 17;388(10063):e28-e36. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31660-9. Epub 
2016 Oct 25.

The heart of Africa: succeeding against the odds.

Sliwa K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hatter Institute for Cardiovascular Research in Africa, South African Medical 
Research Council Inter-University Cape Heart Group, University of Cape Town, Cape
Town, South Africa; The Institute of Infectious Disease and Molecular Medicine,
Department of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape Town, Cape
Town, South Africa; The Mary MacKillop Institute for Health Research, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, Australian Catholic University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia;
Soweto Cardiovascular Research Group, University of the Witwatersrand,
Johannesburg, South Africa. Electronic address: karen.sliwa-hahnle@uct.ac.za.

South Africa and other areas of sub-Saharan Africa have in the past 20 years
undergone rapid demographical changes, largely due to urbanisation and changes in
lifestyle. This rapid change has led to a marked increase in specific cardiac
conditions, such as hypertensive heart disease and coronary artery disease (with 
the highest prevalence in the middle-aged population), in conjunction with a
range of other heart diseases, which are historically common in Africa-eg,
rheumatic heart disease, cardiomyopathies, and unoperated congenital heart
disease. The short supply of well-equipped screening facilities, late diagnosis, 
and inadequate care at primary, secondary, and tertiary levels have led to a
large burden of patients with poorly treated heart failure. Excellent progress
has been made in the understanding of the epidemiology, sociodemographical
factors, effect of urbanisation, and pathophysiology of cardiac conditions, such 
as peripartum cardiomyopathy, rheumatic heart disease, and tuberculous
pericarditis, which are common in sub-Saharan Africa. This progress has been
achieved largely through several studies, such as the Heart of Soweto, THESUS,
REMEDY, BA-HEF, Abeokuta-HF, and the PAPUCO studies. Studies on the suitable
therapeutic management of several heart conditions have also been done or are
underway. In this Lecture, I provide a personal perspective on the evolving
burden of cardiac disease, as witnessed since my appointment at Chris Hani
Baragwanath Hospital, in Soweto, South Africa, in 1992, which was also the year
that the referendum to end apartheid in South Africa was held. Subsequently, a
network of cardiologists was formed under the umbrella of the Heart of Africa
Studies and the Pan African Cardiac Society. Furthermore, I summarise the major
gaps in the health-care system dealing with the colliding epidemic of
communicable and non-communicable heart diseases, including cardiac diseases
common in peripartum women. I also touch on the fantastic opportunities available
for doing meaningful research with enthusiastic colleagues and, thereby, having a
large effect, despite the need to be highly innovative in finding much needed
funding support.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31660-9 
PMID: 27793430  [PubMed - in process]


34. J Clin Diagn Res. 2016 Sep;10(9):OC10-OC14. Epub 2016 Sep 1.

Clinical Profile with Angiographic Correlation in Naïve Acute Coronary Syndrome.

Agrawal V(1), Lohiya BV(2), Sihag BK(2), Prajapati R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Assistant Professor, Department of Cardiology, Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Banaras Hindu University , Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India . (2)Senior Resident,
Department of Cardiology, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University
, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India .

INTRODUCTION: Despite cardiovascular diseases having grown to epidemic
proportions, there are few studies from India pertaining to Acute Coronary
Syndrome (ACS), more so from the region of Purvanchal which is less developed
with more poverty. Our study is first of its kind in this region of patients
presenting for the first time with ACS.
AIM: The present study was undertaken to study the clinical and angiographic
characteristics of ACS patients of Purvanchal.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a prospective cohort study of 100 patients
admitted with ACS. Patients were excluded if they had prior cardiac pathology
like valvular heart disease, cardiomyopathy, pericardial disease, cor pulmonale, 
ischaemic heart disease or cardiac revascularisation. Patients who did not
undergo angiography were excluded. Patients were divided into ST Elevation
Myocardial Infarction (STEMI) and non STEMI (NSTEMI). Presentation delays as well
as clinical characteristics analysed in each group were age, gender, presence or 
absence of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidaemia, smoking, Body Mass
Index (BMI), family history, duration of chest pain, and treatment received.
RESULTS: Mean age of patients was 58.9 years with 27% below 50 years. Of the
total 75% were males. Patients with STEMI were 65%. Median time to reach hospital
was 24 hours with only 27% patients reaching hospital within 6 hours. Among
patients with STEMI only 43% received fibrinolytic therapy. 23% patients had
diabetes, 21% were hypertensive, 16% were smokers, family history of
cardiovascular disease present in 11% and 21% had body mass index more than 30.
Mean LDL was 115mg/dl and HDL 39mg/dl with 54% of patients having at least one
risk factor. Factors favouring triple vessel involvement were female sex, higher 
age, smoking, presence of diabetes and NSTEMI.
CONCLUSION: Indians develop ACS at earlier age. Precious time is lost before
seeking treatment. There is a need for aggressive risk factor modification which 
along with health awareness will be the key to prevent premature cases of ACS and
limit morbidity and mortality due to delayed treatment.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2016/21166.8519 
PMCID: PMC5071985
PMID: 27790485  [PubMed - in process]


35. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2016 Nov - Dec;59(3):295-302. doi:
10.1016/j.pcad.2016.10.003. Epub 2016 Oct 24.

Renal Denervation for Resistant Hypertension.

Reilly JP(1), White CJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, John Ochsner Heart and Vascular
Institute. Electronic address: jreilly@ocshner.org. (2)Department of
Cardiovascular Diseases, John Ochsner Heart and Vascular Institute; Ochsner
Clinical School, University of Queensland School of Medicine.

Renal denervation as a treatment for hypertension (HTN) has been shown to be
effective as a surgical procedure. Over the past 10 years, an endovascular
approach to replicate the results of surgical splanchnicectomy has been
investigated to replace this surgical procedure with a less invasive procedure
with lower morbidity. Several devices and procedures have been developed,
including a non-invasive strategy. We review the improvement of HTN in clinical
trials of these devices as well as the shortcomings of these studies. Thus far,
these trials have been unable to prove that these renal denervation strategies
are superior to medical therapy alone, but we look forward to further randomized,
double blinded trials of current systems that can effectively achieve denervation
to reduce the risk of HTN.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcad.2016.10.003 
PMID: 27789315  [PubMed - in process]


36. Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2016 Dec;9(6):521-530. doi:
10.1161/CIRCGENETICS.116.001530. Epub 2016 Oct 25.

Defining a Contemporary Ischemic Heart Disease Genetic Risk Profile Using
Historical Data.

Mosley JD(1), van Driest SL(2), Wells QS(2), Shaffer CM(2), Edwards TL(2),
Bastarache L(2), McCarty CA(2), Thompson W(2), Chute CG(2), Jarvik GP(2),
Crosslin DR(2), Larson EB(2), Kullo IJ(2), Pacheco JA(2), Peissig PL(2),
Brilliant MH(2), Linneman JG(2), Denny JC(2), Roden DM(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Medicine (J.D.M., S.L.v.D., Q.S.W., C.M.S., J.C.D.,
D.M.R.), Department of Pediatrics (S.L.v.D.), Vanderbilt Epidemiology Center
(T.L.E.), Biomedical Informatics (L.B., J.C.D., D.M.R.), and Department of
Pharmacology (D.M.R.), Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN; Essentia Institute
of Rural Health, Duluth, MN (C.A.M.); Center for Biomedical Research Informatics,
North Shore University Health System, Evanston, IL (W.T.); Department of Health
Policy and Management Schools of Medicine, Public Health, and Nursing, Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD (C.G.C.); Departments of Medicine (Medical
Genetics) and Genome Sciences (G.P.J.) and Departments of Biomedical Informatics 
and Medical Education (D.R.C.), University of Washington, Seattle; Group Health
Research Institute, Seattle, WA (E.B.L.); Division of Cardiovascular Diseases,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN (I.J.K.); Center for Genetic Medicine, Northwestern
University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL (J.A.P.); and Biomedical
Informatics Research Center (P.L.P., J.G.L.) and Center for Human Genetics
(M.H.B.), Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation, WI.
jonathan.d.mosley@vanderbilt.edu. (2)From the Department of Medicine (J.D.M.,
S.L.v.D., Q.S.W., C.M.S., J.C.D., D.M.R.), Department of Pediatrics (S.L.v.D.),
Vanderbilt Epidemiology Center (T.L.E.), Biomedical Informatics (L.B., J.C.D.,
D.M.R.), and Department of Pharmacology (D.M.R.), Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, TN; Essentia Institute of Rural Health, Duluth, MN (C.A.M.); Center
for Biomedical Research Informatics, North Shore University Health System,
Evanston, IL (W.T.); Department of Health Policy and Management Schools of
Medicine, Public Health, and Nursing, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD
(C.G.C.); Departments of Medicine (Medical Genetics) and Genome Sciences (G.P.J.)
and Departments of Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education (D.R.C.),
University of Washington, Seattle; Group Health Research Institute, Seattle, WA
(E.B.L.); Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN
(I.J.K.); Center for Genetic Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of
Medicine, Chicago, IL (J.A.P.); and Biomedical Informatics Research Center
(P.L.P., J.G.L.) and Center for Human Genetics (M.H.B.), Marshfield Clinic
Research Foundation, WI.

BACKGROUND: Continued reductions in morbidity and mortality attributable to
ischemic heart disease (IHD) require an understanding of the changing
epidemiology of this disease. We hypothesized that we could use genetic
correlations, which quantify the shared genetic architectures of phenotype pairs 
and extant risk factors from a historical prospective study to define the risk
profile of a contemporary IHD phenotype.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used 37 phenotypes measured in the ARIC study
(Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities; n=7716, European ancestry subjects) and
clinical diagnoses from an electronic health record (EHR) data set (n=19 093).
All subjects had genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism genotyping. We
measured pairwise genetic correlations (rG) between the ARIC and EHR phenotypes
using linear mixed models. The genetic correlation estimates between the ARIC
risk factors and the EHR IHD were modestly linearly correlated with hazards ratio
estimates for incident IHD in ARIC (Pearson correlation [r]=0.62), indicating
that the 2 IHD phenotypes had differing risk profiles. For comparison, this
correlation was 0.80 when comparing EHR and ARIC type 2 diabetes mellitus
phenotypes. The EHR IHD phenotype was most strongly correlated with ARIC
metabolic phenotypes, including total:high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio 
(rG=-0.44, P=0.005), high-density lipoprotein (rG=-0.48, P=0.005), systolic blood
pressure (rG=0.44, P=0.02), and triglycerides (rG=0.38, P=0.02). EHR phenotypes
related to type 2 diabetes mellitus, atherosclerotic, and hypertensive diseases
were also genetically correlated with these ARIC risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: The EHR IHD risk profile differed from ARIC and indicates that
treatment and prevention efforts in this population should target hypertensive
and metabolic disease.

© 2016 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCGENETICS.116.001530 
PMCID: PMC5177499 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 27780847  [PubMed - in process]


37. J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2016 Nov;100:9-20. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2016.09.006. Epub
2016 Sep 19.

Sarcolemmal α2-adrenoceptors control protective cardiomyocyte-delimited
sympathoadrenal response.

Kokoz YM(1), Evdokimovskii EV(2), Maltsev AV(3), Nenov MN(4), Nakipova OV(5),
Averin AS(6), Pimenov OY(7), Teplov IY(8), Berezhnov AV(9), Reyes S(10), Alekseev
AE(11).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of
Science, Institutskaya 3, Pushchino, Moscow Region 142290, Russia. Electronic
address: yuryikokoz@gmail.com. (2)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental
Biophysics, Russian Academy of Science, Institutskaya 3, Pushchino, Moscow Region
142290, Russia. Electronic address: onletaet@gmail.com. (3)Institute of
Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of Science,
Institutskaya 3, Pushchino, Moscow Region 142290, Russia. Electronic address:
goicr@rambler.ru. (4)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics,
Russian Academy of Science, Institutskaya 3, Pushchino, Moscow Region 142290,
Russia; Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Texas Medical
Branch, Galveston, TX 77555, USA. Electronic address: mnnenov@utmb.edu.
(5)Institute of Cell Biophysics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Institutskaya 3,
Pushchino, Moscow Region 142290, Russia. Electronic address:
olga.nakipova@gmail.com. (6)Institute of Cell Biophysics, Russian Academy of
Sciences, Institutskaya 3, Pushchino, Moscow Region 142290, Russia. Electronic
address: averinas82@gmail.com. (7)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental
Biophysics, Russian Academy of Science, Institutskaya 3, Pushchino, Moscow Region
142290, Russia. Electronic address: poleg237@rambler.ru. (8)Institute of Cell
Biophysics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Institutskaya 3, Pushchino, Moscow
Region 142290, Russia. Electronic address: T.I.Y@mail.ru. (9)Institute of Cell
Biophysics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Institutskaya 3, Pushchino, Moscow
Region 142290, Russia. Electronic address: g_56@rambler.ru. (10)Division of
Cardiovascular Diseases, Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics, Stabile 5, Mayo Clinic, 200 1st Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905,
USA. Electronic address: reyesramirez.santiago@mayo.edu. (11)Division of
Cardiovascular Diseases, Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics, Stabile 5, Mayo Clinic, 200 1st Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905,
USA. Electronic address: alekseev.alexey@mayo.edu.

Sustained cardiac adrenergic stimulation has been implicated in the development
of heart failure and ventricular dysrhythmia. Conventionally, α2 adrenoceptors
(α2-AR) have been assigned to a sympathetic short-loop feedback aimed at
attenuating catecholamine release. We have recently revealed the expression of
α2-AR in the sarcolemma of cardiomyocytes and identified the ability of α2-AR
signaling to suppress spontaneous Ca(2+) transients through nitric oxide (NO)
dependent pathways. Herein, patch-clamp measurements and serine/threonine
phosphatase assay revealed that, in isolated rat cardiomyocytes, activation of
α2-AR suppressed L-type Ca(2+) current (ICaL) via stimulation of NO synthesis and
protein kinase G- (PKG) dependent activation of phosphatase reactions,
counteracting isoproterenol-induced β-adrenergic activation. Under stimulation
with norepinephrine (NE), an agonist of β- and α-adrenoceptors, the α2-AR
antagonist yohimbine substantially elevated ICaL at NE levels >10nM.
Concomitantly, yohimbine potentiated triggered intracellular Ca(2+) dynamics and 
contractility of cardiac papillary muscles. Therefore, in addition to the
α2-AR-mediated feedback suppression of sympathetic and adrenal catecholamine
release, α2-AR in cardiomyocytes can govern a previously unrecognized local
cardiomyocyte-delimited stress-reactive signaling pathway. We suggest that such
aberrant α2-AR signaling may contribute to the development of cardiomyopathy
under sustained sympathetic drive. Indeed, in cardiomyocytes of spontaneously
hypertensive rats (SHR), an established model of cardiac hypertrophy, α2-AR
signaling was dramatically reduced despite increased α2-AR mRNA levels compared
to normal cardiomyocytes. Thus, targeting α2-AR signaling mechanisms in
cardiomyocytes may find implications in medical strategies against maladaptive
cardiac remodeling associated with chronic sympathoadrenal stimulation.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2016.09.006 
PMID: 27659409  [PubMed - in process]


38. Med Intensiva. 2016 Nov;40(8):499-510. doi: 10.1016/j.medin.2016.06.006. Epub
2016 Aug 25.

Diastolic dysfunction in the critically ill patient.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Suárez JC(1), López P(1), Mancebo J(1), Zapata L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Medicina Intensiva, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau,
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Calle de Sant Quintí, 89, 08026 Barcelona,
Spain. (2)Servicio de Medicina Intensiva, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau,
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Calle de Sant Quintí, 89, 08026 Barcelona,
Spain. Electronic address: LZapata@santpau.cat.

Left ventricular diastolic dysfunction is a common finding in critically ill
patients. It is characterized by a progressive deterioration of the relaxation
and the compliance of the left ventricle. Two-dimensional and Doppler
echocardiography is a cornerstone in its diagnosis. Acute pulmonary edema
associated with hypertensive crisis is the most frequent presentation of
diastolic dysfunction critically ill patients. Myocardial ischemia, sepsis and
weaning failure from mechanical ventilation also may be associated with diastolic
dysfunction. The treatment is based on the reduction of pulmonary congestion and 
left ventricular filling pressures. Some studies have found a prognostic role of 
diastolic dysfunction in some diseases such as sepsis. The present review aims to
analyze thoroughly the echocardiographic diagnosis and the most frequent
scenarios in critically ill patients in whom diastolic dysfunction plays a key
role.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier España, S.L.U. y SEMICYUC. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medin.2016.06.006 
PMID: 27569679  [PubMed - in process]


39. Circ Heart Fail. 2016 Oct;9(10). pii: e003238. Epub 2016 Oct 10.

Left Atrial Remodeling and Atrioventricular Coupling in a Canine Model of Early
Heart Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction.

Zakeri R(1), Moulay G(2), Chai Q(2), Ogut O(2), Hussain S(2), Takahama H(2), Lu
T(2), Wang XL(2), Linke WA(2), Lee HC(2), Redfield MM(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN
(R.Z., G.M., Q.C., O.O., S.H., H.T., T.L., X.-L.W., H.-C.L., M.M.R.); and
Department of Cardiovascular Physiology, Ruhr University Bochum, Germany (WA.L). 
rosita.zakeri@doctors.org.uk. (2)From the Division of Cardiovascular Diseases,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN (R.Z., G.M., Q.C., O.O., S.H., H.T., T.L., X.-L.W.,
H.-C.L., M.M.R.); and Department of Cardiovascular Physiology, Ruhr University
Bochum, Germany (WA.L).

BACKGROUND: Left atrial (LA) compliance and contractility influence left
ventricular stroke volume. We hypothesized that diminished LA compliance and
contractile function occur early during the development of heart failure with
preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) and impair overall cardiac performance.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, echocardiography, left
ventricular and LA pressure-volume studies, and tissue analyses were performed in
a model of early HFpEF (elderly dogs, renal wrap-induced hypertension, exogenous 
aldosterone; n=9) and young control dogs (sham surgery; n=13). Early HFpEF was
associated with LA enlargement, cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, and enhanced LA
contractile function (median active emptying fraction 16% [95% confidence
interval, 13-24]% versus 12 [10-14]%, P=0.008; end-systolic pressure-volume
relationship slope 2.4 [1.9-3.2]mm Hg/mL HFpEF versus 1.5 [1.2-2.2]mm Hg/mL
controls, P=0.01). However, atrioventricular coupling was impaired and the
curvilinear LA end-reservoir pressure-volume relationship was shifted
upward/leftward in HFpEF (LA stiffness constant [βLA] 0.16 [0.11-0.18]mm Hg/mL
versus 0.06 [0.04-0.10]mm Hg/mL controls; P=0.002), indicating reduced LA
compliance. Impaired atrioventricular coupling and lower LA compliance correlated
with lower left ventricular stroke volume. Total fibrosis and titin isoform
composition were similar between groups; however, titin was hyperphosphorylated
in HFpEF and correlated with βLA. LA microvascular reactivity was diminished in
HFpEF versus controls. LA microvascular density tended to be lower in HFpEF and
inversely correlated with βLA.
CONCLUSIONS: In early-stage hypertensive HFpEF, LA cardiomyocyte hypertrophy,
titin hyperphosphorylation, and microvascular dysfunction occur in association
with increased systolic and diastolic LA chamber stiffness, impaired
atrioventricular coupling, and decreased left ventricular stroke volume. These
data indicate that maladaptive LA remodeling occurs early during HFpEF
development, supporting a concept of global myocardial remodeling.

© 2016 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCHEARTFAILURE.115.003238 
PMCID: PMC5082983 [Available on 2017-10-10]
PMID: 27758811  [PubMed - in process]


40. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e552.

LBOS 03-05 CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES RISK COMPARISONS BETWEEN DIFFERENT BLOOD
PRESSURE RANGE IN DIFFERENT POPULATION.

Jiang X(1), Yin L, Wang Y, Li W, Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Cardiology, Fuwai hospital, CAMS&PUMC, China 2Medical Research 
& Biometrics Center, National Center for Cardiovascular Diseases Cardiovascular
Institute & Fuwai Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, China.

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to study whether there was a blood pressure range that was
positively associated with stroke or coronary heart disease compared with other
levels in the so-called normotensives with or without diabetes mellitus and
intermediate or high risk-factor burden.
DESIGN AND METHOD: We enrolled 42959 persons aged 35-70 years old between 2005
and 2009 from 70 rural and 45 urban communities in China, and assessed their
cardiovascular risk-factor burden using the validated INTERHEART Risk Score. To
enable comparisons between subgroups, we adjusted for age, sex, rural or urban,
education, family history of cardiovascular disease, HDL-C, LDL-C, triglyceride
and waist-hip ratio where appropriate using generalized linear model in SAS.
RESULTS: Among 18537 (43.15%total population) hypertensives, 10503 (56.66%)
participants were in intermediate or high risk range according to the INTERHEART 
risk score. In the 3984 (9.27%total population) diabetes participants, there were
2545 (56.66%)hypertensives. We subdivided the non-hypertensives (56.85% overall
subjects)into three groups, namely systolic blood pressure≥130 mmHg or diastolic 
blood pressure≥85 mmHg (24.86%), SBP < 130 but ≥120 mmHg and DBP<85 but ≥80 mmHg 
(32.81%), SBP<120 and DBP<80 mmHg (42.32%). The odds ratios of self-reported
stroke and coronary heart disease after adjusted among the three subgroups were
not significantly different from each other no matter in the overall population
or in the non-diabetes or diabetes subjects or the medium and high-risk
participants. Whereas compared with the third non-hypertensive subgroup, the odds
of self-reported stroke in the hypertensives were 2.796 (95% CI:2.166-3.609,
P < 0.0001), 2.687 (95% CI:2.044-3.532, P < 0.0001), 3.122 (95% CI:1.506-6.472,
P = 0.0022), 3.713 (95% CI:2.509-5.494, P < 0.0001) respectively in the overall
population and the non-diabetes and diabetes subjects and the medium or high risk
participants; the odds of self-reported coronary heart disease in the
hypertensives were 1.790 (95% CI:1.559-2.055, P < 0.0001), 1.716 (95%
CI:1.482-1.987, P < 0.0001), 2.142 (95% CI:1.392-3.296, P = 0.0005), 2.205 (95%
CI:1.780-2.732, P < 0.0001) respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Hypertension was significantly associated with stroke and coronary
heart disease, especialy stroke, in different population. In diabetes and
intermediate or high-risk subjects, the risk of hypertension for stroke and
coronary heart disease was even aggravated. In different population, we didn't
discover that the three blood pressure subgroups in non-hypertensives were
significantly associated with stroke or coronary heart disease.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000501511.75418.c4 
PMID: 27754310  [PubMed - in process]


41. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e542.

BR 07-2 THE LINKING IN THE HUMAN (OBSERVATIONAL AND CLINICAL STUDY).

Nilsson P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lund University, Sweden.

A number of chronic disease conditions tend to cluster in families with an
increased risk in first-degree relatives, but also an increased risk in
second-degree relatives. This fact is most often referred to as the heritability 
(heredity) of these diseases and explained by the influence of genetic factors,
or shared environment, even if the more specific details or mechanism leading to 
disease are not known. New methods have to be explored in screening studies and
register linkage studies to define and measure consequences of a positive family 
history of disease. Furthermore, recent studies have indicated that different
genetic scores of well-known genetic markers of disease conditions such as
obesity, type 2 diabetes or myocardial infarction are only able to explain a
minor proportion of this described heritability. Thus, there is still a lack of
knowledge to explain the so called "missing heritability" of these disorders
[1].Of particular interest in this perspective is to determine the role of the
microbiome, measured as microbiota (the gut bacteria composition and variety, but
also from the oral cavity), and its association with dietary intake together with
the genetic profile of the host, in relation to alterations in metabolism and
immunological function. For example, changes in microbiota composition has been
associated with risk of obesity, type 2 diabetes and immunological disturbances
as well as with chronic inflammation. This research is linked to other research
areas in microbiology, nutritional sciences, technology and innovation for
prevention. For example, functional food products can be developed and tailored
to match the profile and needs of the individual. Of special interest in a family
perspective is that the microbiome of individuals is influenced in early life, in
the first place by the microbiota of the mother from exposure to the offspring
during delivery and neonatal period. Later on this is influenced by more or less 
shared microbiota patterns in the household during childhood and adolescence due 
to cohabitation. It is hypothesized that microbiota profile as well as dietary
intake patterns may cluster within families. Recently it was discovered that
there is also a specific serum biomarker, the pro-atherosclerotic metabolite,
trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) that is able to reflect the gut microbiome and
predict cardiovascular events [2]. TMAO can also predict prognosis in patients
with congestive heart failure. Interventions to change the microbiota have
provided promising results [3] and been described as a potential treatment target
for cardio-metabolic disease. Such interventions should be based on the wider use
of designed and tested functional food products as part of a healthy lifestyle in
general. New findings hypertensive experimental animals and in human patients has
revealed a special pattern of different microbiota patterns (dysbiosis) that
differs from normotensive controls [4]. This could be linked to early life
influences of other factors related to lifestyle in adult life. One idea is to
test the influence of antibiotic treatment in these hypertensive individuals to
see if vascular function can be improved and blood pressure lowered. We have to
learn more about the gastrointestinal tract as potential initial organ of
metabolic hypertension, as recently suggested [5].In summary, the family
clustering of cardiometabolic disorders is a well-known clinical observation, but
still not fully understood. Genetic factors, even put together in a risk score,
can explain just a minor proportion of the increased family risk. New discoveries
linking gut microbiota to obesity and cardiometabolic risk conditions, including 
hypertension, could explain some of this increased clustering. Gut microbiota
could potentially be influenced by functional food products and healthy
lifestyle, providing a link to cardiovascular and metabolic prevention.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000501488.78989.9e 
PMID: 27754287  [PubMed - in process]


42. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e541.

ME 04-2 AORTIC PWV FOR RISK STRATIFICATION IN HYPERTENSION.

Park JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cheil General Hospital, Dankook University College of Medicine, Korea,
Republic of.

High pressure of the blood in artery is a common condition and it is closely
related to cardiovascular (CV) diseases in future. Blood pressure itself is the
most important criteria for hypertension prognosis but attempts are being made to
detect hypertensive vascular changes early. Healthy arteries are flexible, strong
and elastic but if the condition of high blood pressure persists, arteries turn
narrow, thick and stiff, become a condition of arteriosclerosis. And so now,
pulse wave velocity (PWV) which measures arteriosclerosis became one of the
clinically significant method that evaluates CV risks among patients in
hypertension (yes, it is also very important for general population), detects
biological changes in blood vessels caused by hypertension, and it is known as a 
guide for hypertension management.Other than hypertension, the importance of PWV 
on various pathological status such as diabetes and renal diseases has been known
and it is widely used in clinical settings. There is a method which measures PWV 
between two blood vessels, regional PWV and arterial structure in one particular 
blood vessel site, local PWV. Controversies still exist over its accuracy but
most of them were resolved and so now, it was introduced as a standard technique 
by American Heart Association (AHA), European Society of Hypertension and others.
Once the problem of pricing is resolved, it can be broadly used as inexpensive
technique in clinical settings. I will further discuss which PWV techniques to
use and how to interpret aortic PWV data in CV risk stratification of
hypertension in clinical settings.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000501485.94236.51 
PMID: 27754284  [PubMed - in process]


43. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e395.

OS 33-08 OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA PROMOTES CARDIOVASCULAR RISK IN HYPERTENSIVE
POPULATIONS: A CROSS-SECTIONAL STUDY.

Cai A(1), Wang L, Zhou Y, Chen J, Feng Y, Zhong Q.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Guangdong General Hospital, China.

OBJECTIVE: Current study sought to evaluate the effects of obstructive sleep
apnea (OSA) plus hypertension (HTN) on prevalent cardiovascular diseases (CVD).
DESIGN AND METHOD: This was a cross-sectional study and a total of 1889 subjects 
were enrolled. The apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) was measured by polysomnography and
OSA degree was classified as mild (AHI 5-14.9) and moderate-severe (AHI ≥ 15),
and AHI < 5 was considered no-OSA. Mean and lowest oxyhemoglobin saturation
(SaO2) was detected by pulse oximetry. Between-group differences were assessed
and logistic regression analysis was used to analyze the effects of OSA plus HTN 
on prevalent CVD which included coronary heart disease, ischemic stroke, aortic
dissection and aneurysm.
RESULTS: Compared to normotensive subjects, hypertensive subjects were older and 
had higher body mass index, neck girth, waist-hip ratio, blood pressure, AHI, and
low density lipoprotein. Conversely, mean and lowest SaO2 levels were
significantly lower. Similar trends were observed in moderate-severe-OSA subjects
compared to subjects with mild-OSA or no-OSA. Logistic regression analysis showed
that in unadjusted model, compared to subjects with no-OSA and no-HTN (reference 
group), subjects with either OSA or HTN had higher CVD prevalence, with most
prominent in HTN plus moderate-severe-OSA group (OR: 2.638 and 95 % CI:
1.942-3.583). In normotensive subjects, after adjusting for covariates, the
effects of OSA (regardless of severity) on CVD were attenuated to nonsignificant.
In hypertensive subjects, however, the effects of OSA on CVD remained significant
but were reduced, with HTN plus moderate-severe-OSA was attenuated most
prominently (OR: 1.836 and 95 % CI: 1.266-2.663). Further adjusting for mean and 
lowest SaO2, the effects of OSA remained significant and were promoted in
subjects with HTN plus mild-OSA and HTN plus no-OSA, but not in subjects with HTN
plus moderate-severe OSA.
CONCLUSIONS: OSA promotes CV risk in hypertensive subjects, which is independent 
of mean and lowest SaO2.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000501012.38472.98 
PMID: 27754232  [PubMed - in process]


44. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e373-e374.

ED 08-4 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF HYPERTENSIVE EMERGENCY IN CHILDREN.

Shi L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Capital Institute Of Pediatrics, China.

According to the seventh report of Joint National Committee (JNC 7), hypertensive
emergency (HE), a kind of hypertensive crisis, is defined as a sudden and abrupt 
elevation in blood pressure so as to cause acute target organ dysfunctions,
including central nervous system, cardiovascular system or kidneys. Patients with
HE require immediate reduction in markedly elevated blood pressure. Currently,
there are no international guidelines for children HE, so the JNC definition is
commonly used. Hypertensive emergency in children is rare but a life-threatening 
emergency. Generally, secondary hypertension is the most common reason of
hypertensive emergency. We analyzed clinical features of 16 patients with HE who 
were diagnosed as HE from Jan 2007 to Dec 2015 in our hospital. Results showed
that all patients were diagnosed as secondary hypertension, including 10 cases
associated with renal diseases, 3 cases with Takayasu arteritis,1case with
hypercortisolism, 1 case with migraine, and 1 case with unknown reason. The
pathophysiologic mechanisms of HE involve sympathetic hyperactivity and
increasing of vasoconstricting substances, activation of renin-angiotensin system
(RAS), decreasing in auto-regulation of target organs, and chronic endothelial
damage and remodeling. There is strong evidence that the renin-angiotensin system
plays an important role in the genesis of hypertensive crisis. Target organ
dysfunctions may be manifested as hypertensive encephalopathy, acute left
ventricular failure, acute renal failure and papilledema, etc. Hypertensive
encephalopathy is the most common one with the symptoms of persistent headache,
nausea, vomiting, altered mental status, convulsion and coma. Some patients may
be revealed as reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy. Among 16 patients
involved in our study, 13 patients had encephalopathy with 4 cases of reversible 
posterior leukoencephalopathy, 4 patients had acute heart failure with 1 case of 
fundus exudation, and 2 case of acute renal failure. 2 patients died with 3
target organ dysfunctions, including encephalopathy, acute heart failure, and
acute renal failure, which showed that multiple organ dysfunction may increase
the mortality of HE, so earlier identification of target organ dysfunction to
take steps is important. As to the key points of diagnosis of HE, one is the
level of blood pressure and its elevation speed, the other is to identify target 
organ dysfunction earlier. Detailed medical history and complete physical
examination are important. Additionally, serum electrolytes, complete blood
counts, blood urea nitrogen, creatine, urinalysis, chest radiography,
electrocardiogram, enchocardiography, brain MRI and fundoscopy may be needed in
some situation. It is worth mentioning that 8 patients had hypokalemia, and
hypokalemia is associated with the activation of RAS. It indicates the
possibility that hypokalemia may be a predictive factor of HE. The treatment of
HE is based on the differentiation of acute, chronic or acute attack on chronic
hypertension. Once HE is confirmed, intravenous drugs should be emergently
applied. It is suggested that the targeted drop of mean arterial pressure in the 
first 6∼8 hours should reach 25% of the difference between the original value and
the target value, and should be followed by a gradual reduction to the target
value within 24∼48 hours. Safe and efficacious drugs with rapid onset of action
are favorable. According to our experience, sodium nitroprusside and phentolamine
are the most useful and effective in our hospital. It's notable that lowering
intracranial pressure is more important than decreasing blood pressure for those 
patients with a high intracranial pressure who are diagnosed as encephalopathy.
However, rapidly decreasing blood pressure levels may result in decreasing blood 
flow of brain, causing ischemia and infarction. To patients with acute left heart
failure, management including sedation, oxygen supplement, cardiotonics,
diuresis, and vascular dilation should be necessary. Long-acting oral
anti-hypertensive medications should be introduced in conscious child after the
blood pressure has been reasonably controlled within 24-48 hours. According to
our experience, these patients with HE should need more than 2 kinds of
anti-hypertensive drugs. In summary, the key points of diagnosis and treatment of
HE are earlier identification and effective therapy to control the development of
acute target organ dysfunctions.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000500960.86961.bb 
PMID: 27754180  [PubMed - in process]


45. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e369-e370.

SY 14-4 VACCINE THERAPY FOR RESISTANT HYPERTENSION: IS IT A DYING ISSUE?

Morishita R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan.

Recent research on vaccination has extended its scope from infectious diseases to
chronic diseases, including Alzheimer disease, dyslipidemia, and hypertension. We
have designed DNA vaccine for the treatment of high blood pressure (BP) toward to
human vaccine therapy to treat hypertension. Plasmid vector encoding hepatitis B 
core-angiotensin II (Ang II) fusion protein was injected into spontaneously
hypertensive rats (SHR) using needleless injection system. Anti-Ang II antibody
was successfully produced in hepatitis B core-Ang II group, and antibody response
against Ang II was sustained for at least 6 months. Systolic BP was consistently 
lower in hepatitis B core-Ang II group after immunization, whereas BP reduction
was continued for at least 6 months. Perivascular fibrosis in heart tissue was
also significantly decreased in hepatitis B core-Ang II group. More importantly, 
survival rate was significantly improved in hepatitis B core-Ang II group. This
study demonstrated that Ang II DNA vaccine to SHR significantly lowered high BP
for at least 6 months. In addition, Ang II DNA vaccines induced an adequate
humoral immune response while avoiding the activation of self-reactive T cells,
assessed by ELISPOT assay. Future development of DNA vaccine to treat
hypertension may provide a new therapeutic option to treat hypertension. In this 
symposium, I will discuss the potential of DNA vaccine to treat resistant
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000500954.56466.87 
PMID: 27754174  [PubMed - in process]


46. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e367.

SY 12-3 ARE RAS INHIBITORS NECESSARY FOR ALL PATIENTS WITH DIABETES AND CHRONIC
KIDNEY DISEASE?

Kim-Mitsuyama S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kumamoto University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Japan.

There is accumulating evidence that RAS inhibitors not only reduce blood
pressure, but also exert pleiotropic effects, including a renoprotective effect, 
amelioration of insulin resistance, reduction in onset of diabetes, and
suppression of cardiovascular remodelling,. However, the definite benefit of RAS 
inhibition in treatment of hypertension with CKD or DM is not conclusive. We
previously performed the OlmeSartan and Calcium Antagonists Randomized (OSCAR)
study comparing the preventive effect of high-dose ARB therapy versus ARB plus
CCB combination therapy on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in 1164
Japanese elderly hypertensive patients with baseline type 2 diabetes and/or CVD
(Am J Med (2012)). This trial showed that there was no significant difference in 
the incidence of primary events (fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events and
non-cardiovascular death) between ARB plus CCB therapy and high-dose ARB therapy.
However, ARB + CCB combination lowered blood pressure more than high-dose ARB,
and the combined ARB and CCB therapy reduced the incidence of primary events
better than high-dose ARB monotherapy in patients with baseline CVD. Further
prespecified CKD subanalysis of the OSCAR study has shown that ARB plus CCB
therapy also reduces the incidence of primary events more than high-dose ARB
therapy in patients with CKD (eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m) (Kidney Int (2013)).
Therefore, better blood pressure control by ARB + CCB combination than high-dose 
ARB monotherapy is associated with lower incidence of cardiovascular events by
ARB + CCB combination. Our trial support the notion that better blood pressure
control rather than greater inhibition of RAS is important for providing the
benefit of ARB-based therapy in elderly hypertensive patients with baseline CKD
or CVD.In type 2 diabetic patients, an increased urinary albumin creatinine ratio
(UACR) is associated with the development of diabetic nephropathy and
macrovascular disease. HOPE sub-study indicates that microalbuminuria is a risk
factor for cardiovascular events, all-cause death and hospitalization for
congestive heart failure. Further, the increased plasma BNP levels can also
predict risk of death and cardiovascular events after adjustment for traditional 
risk factors. A trial of telmisartan prevention of cardiovascular diseases
(ATTEMPT-CVD) was performed to compare the effects of ARB therapy and those of
non-ARB standard therapy on UACR and BNP level changes in 1,228 hypertensive
patients (Eur J Prev Cardiol (2016)). In this prospective randomized trial, the
ARB group had a significant effect on UACR and plasma BNP level changes compared 
with the non-ARB group, and ARB treatment caused a smaller increase in plasma BNP
and a greater decrease in UACR than non-ARB treatment, independently of blood
pressure control. These findings suggest the benefit of RAS inhibition in
improvement of UACR and BNP.Either DM or CKD is significantly associated with
high incidence of dementia or Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, dementia or AD
is a key target for treatment of hypertension with baseline DM or CKD. However,
the benefit of antihypertensive therapy in prevention of dementia or AD remains
to be defined. Interestingly, epidemiological or observational studies show that 
the use of RAS blockers is associated with lower incidence of dementia or AD.
Thus, the potential role of RAS in pathophysiology of dementia or AD is paid much
attention. However, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. In preclinical study, 
we have found that CKD significantly enhances cognitive impairment in a mouse
model of AD and RAS inhibition ameliorates cognitive impairment in AD mouse with 
CKD. Furthermore, we found that brain angiotensin II plays a pivotal role in
pathogenesis of AD through oxidative stress, inflammation, or cerebral amyloid
angiopathy. Therefore, it is possible that RAS inhibition may be potentially
promising for prevention of dementia or AD.In conclusion, although RAS inhibition
is beneficial for treatment of hypertension complicated by CKD or DM, appropriate
blood pressure control is necessary for the reduction of cardiovascular events by
RAS inhibition-based therapy. Furthermore, further clinical and preclinical
studies regarding the significance of RAS inhibition in dementia or AD is needed 
to define the potential benefit of RAS inhibition in treatment of hypertension
with DM or CKD.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000500947.18349.b5 
PMID: 27754167  [PubMed - in process]


47. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e252.

OS 28-05 ANTIHYPERTENSIVE EFFECT OF CHYMASE INHIBITORY JAPANESE WATER PEPPER
INTAKE IN SALT-DEPENDENT MODERATE HYPERTENSION MOUSE MODEL AND IN HUMAN.

Urata H(1), Devarajan S, Okamura K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, Fukuoka University Chikushi Hospital,
Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to test chymase inhibitory traditional
Japanese food (Japanese Water Pepper, JWP) intake in salt-induced hypertensive
mouse model and in human.
DESIGN AND METHOD: Salt-dependent hypertension model using 8 weeks age of wild
type mice was established giving 2% NaCl drinking water. This model shows chronic
moderate hypertension (AJP 2015). Our extensive food extract survey for
inhibition of human chymase revealed that JWP possessed human chymase inhibitory 
effect in vitro. Antihypertensive effect of orally given dried and powdered JWP
was examined in above model in vivo. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure post
12 week salt loading in placebo treated group showed significant increase
(146/103 mmHg) compared to the starting point at 8 weeks (111/73 mmHg), whereas
those in the treated group with JWP (n = 15) showed no significant increase
(129/83 mmHg and 748/min) and were equivalent to those in non-salt loading
control group except heart rate (n = 20, 124/82 mmHg).
RESULTS: Secondarily, a prospective double blind randomized placebo control
clinical trial was performed using dried powered JWP. Mild to moderate
hypertensives (n = 36) without taking any antihypertensive drug were recruited
and randomly divided into three groups: placebo (n = 13), orally taking dried and
powdered JWP 400 (n = 13) or 800 mg/day (n = 13) groups for 12 weeks after at
least 2 weeks observation period. Home blood pressure was monitored by an
automatic data registering sphygmomanometer in the morning as well as evening.
Morning and evening systolic blood pressure of JWP group showed significant
reduction before and after the intake of JWP (p < 0.001) and compared to those of
control group (p < 0.01). Heart rate of three groups did not change
significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicated that chymase inhibition by JWP contributed to 
anti-hypertensive effect in high salt-loading hypertensive mouse model and in
human. JWP will be applicable to salt-induced hypertension in human.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000500571.33038.a8 
PMID: 27754147  [PubMed - in process]


48. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e214.

OS 14-08 ESTIMATED CAROTID-FEMORAL PULSE WAVE VELOCITY HAS SIMILAR PREDICTIVE
VALUE AS MEASURED CAROTID-FEMORAL PULSE WAVE VELOCITY.

Olsen M(1), Greve S, Blicher M, Kruger R, Sehestedt T, Rasmussen S, Vishram J,
Boutouyrie P, Laurent S.

Author information: 
(1)1Centre for Individualized Medicine in Arterial Diseases, Odense Universital
Hospital, Denmark 2Department of Endocrinology, Odense Universital Hospital,
Denmark 3Department of Pharmacology, HEGP, AP-HP, INSERM U970, Paris, France
4Hypertension in Africa Research Team (HART), North-West University,
Potchefstroom, South Africa 5Department of Cardiology, Bispebjerg University
Hospital, Denmark 6Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Gentofte University
Hospital, Denmark 7Research Centre for Prevention and Health, Department of
Cardiology, Gentofte University Hospital, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: Carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (cfPWV) adds significantly to
traditional cardiovascular (CV) risk prediction, but is not widely available.
Therefore, it would be helpful if cfPWV could be replaced by an estimated
carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (ePWV) using age and mean blood pressure and 
previously published equations. The aim of this study was to investigate whether 
ePWV could predict CV events independently of traditional cardiovascular risk
factors and/or cfPWV.
DESIGN AND METHOD: cfPWV was measured and ePWV calculated in 2366 apparently
healthy subjects from four age groups of the Danish MONICA10 cohort.
Additionally, the subjects were divided in four CV risk groups based on
Systematic COronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE) or Framingham risk score (FRS). In
2006 the combined CV endpoint (CEP) of CV death, non-fatal myocardial infarction,
stroke and hospitalization for ischemic heart disease was registered. Most
results were retested in 1045 hypertensive patients from a Paris cohort.
RESULTS: Bland Altman plot demonstrated a relative difference of -0.3 % (95%
confidence interval (CI) -15-17%) between ePWV and cfPWV. In Cox regression
models in apparently healthy subjects, ePVW and cfPWV (per standard deviation)
added independently to SCORE in prediction of CEP (HR [95% CI] = 1.38[1.09-1.76] 
and HR [95% CI] = 1.18[1.01-1.38]) and to FRS (HR [95% CI] = 1.33[1.06-1.66] and 
HR [95% CI] = 1.16[0.99-1.37]). If healthy subjects with ePWV and/or cfPWV ≥ 10
m/s were reclassified to a higher SCORE risk category, net reclassification index
(NRI) was 10.8%, P < 0.01 (Table 1). These results were reproduced in the Paris
cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: ePWV predicted major CV events independently of SCORE, FRS and cfPWV
indicating that these traditional risk scores have underestimated the complicated
impact of age and blood pressure on arterial stiffness and CV risk.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000500466.31870.0c 
PMID: 27754051  [PubMed - in process]


49. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e200.

JS KSH-JSH-CHL 01-1 CARDIO-METABOLIC RISKS IN HYPERTENSION: ARE WE DIFFERENT FROM
WESTERN SOCIETIES?

Itoh H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Keio University School of Medicine, Japan.

Many hypertension guidelines have been published mainly from Western countries to
standardize the management of hypertension all over the world, however, the
significance of hypertension, along with other cardio-metabolic risks, such as
obesity, diabetes or dyslipidemia should differ among different races. This paper
compares the relevance of hypertension, one of the most important
cardio-metabolic risk factors, in Asian and Western societies.1) Low target level
of blood pressure control for diabetic hypertensives in JapanIn the Japanese
Society of Hypertension Guidelines for the management of Hypertension (JSH2014), 
the target of blood pressure (BP) control in hypertensive patients with diabetes 
was set as < 130/80 mmHg. This target is lower than that of major hypertension
guidelines in Europe (ESH/ESC2013) and the United States (ADA2016, JNC-8).The
results of HOT and UKPDS38 gave the evidence for setting a lower BP target for
diabetic hypertensive patients, and the recommendations of the American Diabetes 
Association (ADA) in 2003, JNC7 (2003) and ESH/ESC 2007 Guidelines set < 130/80
mmHg as a target level of BP control. The JSH 2009 Guidelines also set the same
target.However, in the ACCORD-BP in 2010, BP was reduced to 119.3/64.4 mmHg in
the strict treatment group and to 133.3/70.5 mmHg in the standard treatment
group. The annual incidences of a primary endpoint (nonfatal myocardial
infarction (MI), nonfatal stroke, cardiovascular death) in the strict and
standard groups were 1.87% and 2.09%, respectively, showing no significant
difference (p = 0.20). A meta-analysis of 13 studies for 37,736 patients with
diabetes/impaired glucose tolerance by Bangalore et al. also indicated that there
was no positive reason to set the target BP level < 130/80 mmHg. ADA, thus,
revised the target of BP control in diabetics to < 140/80 mmHg in 2013. In the
ESH/ESC 2013 Guidelines, the target of BP control in diabetics was also revised
to < 140/85 mmHg.In Europe and the United State, the incidence of MI is higher
than that of stroke, however, in Japan, the incidence of stroke is higher than
that of MI. In the ACCORD-BP, the incidence of cerebral infarction was about
one-quarter that of MI. On the other hand, in the Hisayama Study, the Suita Study
and Japan Diabetes Complications Study, all of which were conducted in Japan, the
incidence of cerebral infarction was 1.5-2.5 times higher than that of MI. In the
ACCORD-BP, the hazard ratio of stroke was 0.59 in the strict control group,
showing a significant decrease (p = 0.03), although the incidence rate was low.
The meta-analysis of 13 studies by Bangalore et al. also indicated that stroke
could be more effectively prevented at systolic BP level as low as < 120 mmHg.In 
Japan, as well as other Asian countries, where stroke is prevalent, it may be
appropriate to establish the target level of BP control as < 130/80 mmHg.2) The
significance of hypertension in AsiaThe impact of cardio-metabolic risks, i.e.,
high BMI, high BP, decreased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high
triglyceride, and high glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), on cardiovascular diseases
(CVD) mortality was compared between the USA (National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey III) and Japan (NIPPON DATA). It was shown that obesity, high 
BP, triglyceride, and HbA1c were the major risk factors in the USA, whereas only 
high BP and HbA1c level were significant in Japan. Since the prevalence of
obesity was much higher in Western countries than in Asia, the relative
importance of hypertension compared with obesity for CVD is higher in Asian than 
Western countries.The Asia Pacific Cohort Studies Collaboration, which involved
more than 500,000 individuals, demonstrated that the increase of the incidence of
stroke by the same increase of BP was greater by two-fold in Asians than in
Caucasians. In contrast, the increase of the incidence of coronary heart disease 
(CHD) was almost the same.3) Salt consumptionIn 2010, the estimated mean level of
global sodium consumption was 3.95 g per day. This was nearly twice the WHO
recommended limit of 2 g/day and equivalent to 5 g/day of salt. In Japan, the
mean salt intake still exceeds 10 g per day. Sodium intakes were highest in East 
Asia, Central Asia, and Eastern Europe (> 4.2 g/day) in the world.Salt
restriction tends to inhibit stroke more than CHD. This may be because the effect
of BP elevation on stroke is marked, whereas factors other than BP, such as
diabetes or dyslipidemia, also contribute to the occurrence of CHD. Considering
that stroke is prevalent in Asia, salt restriction should be quite efficient for 
the prevention of CVD in Asia than in Western societies.4) Obesity and
hypertensionBoth in Asians and Caucasians, subjects with higher BMI and waist
circumference show a higher prevalence of hypertension and diabetes. However, the
susceptibility to abdominal obesity and the effect of obesity on hypertension or 
diabetes are different. Epidemiological studies demonstrated increased prevalence
of abdominal obesity and increased prevalence of risk factors at lower BMI in
Asians compared with Caucasians. With slight increase of BMI, Asians easily
develop insulin resistance, which causes hypertension and diabetes. In addition, 
for any given level of BMI or waist circumference, the absolute risks for
hypertension and diabetes tend to be higher among Asians compared with
Caucasians.These findings support the need for lower anthropometric cut-off
points (the values derived from the ROC analysis that maximize the sum of
sensitivity and specificity) for the discrimination of hypertension and diabetes 
in Asians. For example, the Obesity in Asia Collaboration recommends cut-off
points of BMI in men as follows: 24 in Asians and 28 in Caucasians for the
discrimination of diabetes, 24 for Asian and 27 for Caucasians for the
discrimination of hypertension.ConclusionHypertension is especially important
risk factor in Asia, since the incidence of stroke is higher than that of MI,
with high salt intake. Stroke can be prevented efficiently by strict BP control. 
Therefore, we, Asians, need our own hypertension guidelines, based upon our own
characteristics.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000500433.92859.2c 
PMID: 27754018  [PubMed - in process]


50. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e196-e197.

ME 02-2 BLOOD PRESSURE TARGETS IN CHRONIC KIDNEY DISEASES AFTER THE SPRINT TRIAL.

Zanchetti A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Istituto Auxologico Italiano and Centro Interuniversitario di Fisiologia
Clinica e Ipertensione, Università degli Studi di Milano, Italy.

The question of BP targets of antihypertensive treatment has been debated in
recent guidelines, and reopened by publication of SPRINT. Although interpretation
of SPRINT is made difficult by a preferential effect of more intense BP lowering 
on heart failure rather than stroke and myocardial infarction, and by a different
method of BP measurement, recent meta-analyses by my group have shown SBP
reduction <130 mmHg can reduce risk of cardiovascular (CV) outcomes further, but 
absolute benefit is smaller than that achieved across the 140 mmHg cutoff, and
treatment discontinuations for adverse events become greater.Even more difficult 
is answering the question of BP targets in CKD. In this condition risks of CV
events and renal failure are both particularly elevated. Unfortunately, evidence 
available from trials is rather confusing. SPRINT has included a consistent
number of hypertensive patients with CKD, and found a trend, albeit
non-significant, toward a reduction of CV events and no effect on risk of renal
failure by more intense BP lowering. When SPRINT results are analyzed together
with those of other trials on CKV, it appears that the benefits of BP lowering on
the risk of CV mortality and morbidity are, at best, lesser than in patients with
normal renal function, and the response of renal function is quite variable from 
trial to trial, possibly depending on the nature of CKD (diabetic or
non-diabetic, with or without proteinuria) and on the type of antihypertensive
drugs used (renin-angiotensin system blockers or other classes). The issue of
antihypertensive treatment in CKD needs to be investigated in greater depth and
with precise questions.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000500428.69988.0e 
PMID: 27754013  [PubMed - in process]


51. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e192-e193.

JS ISH-ESH-2 UPDATE ON THE DETECTION AND FOLLOW-UP OF EARLY HYPERTENSIVE HEART
DISEASE.

Rosei EA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University of Brescia;
Director of Clinica Medica, Spedali Civili di Brescia, Italy.

Current Hypertension Guidelines emphasize the importance of assessing the
presence of preclinical organ damage. In fact, an extensive evaluation of organ
damage may increase the number of patients classified at high CV risk and
therefore strongly influence the clinical management of patients. Hypertensive
heart disease remains to date the form of organ damage for which there is the
greatest amount of evidence of a strong independent prognostic significance. In
the presence of a chronic pressure overload, a parallel addition of sarcomers
takes place with an increase in myocyte width, which in turn increases left
ventricular wall thickness; myocyte hypertrophy is also associated with
apoptosis, collagen deposition and ventricular fibrosis with an impairment of
coronary hemodynamics as well, thus profoundly influencing functional properties 
of the left (and right) ventricle. The development of LVH represents a step
toward the development of clinical cardiovascular diseases, such as congestive
heart failure, ischemic heart disease, stroke and sudden death. Therefore,
accurate assessment of cardiac anatomy and function might be of help for a
prompter identification of early alterations that may predispose hypertensive
patients to cardiovascular events.The Guidelines of the European Society of
Hypertension and of the European Society of Cardiology include echocardiography
among the recommended techniques to be considered in hypertensive patients. In
fact, echocardiography is a relatively easy method, is repeatable, is specific
and more sensitive measure of LVH than electrocardiography. The relationship
between LV mass at baseline and incidence of cardiovascular events is continuous 
and independent of other cardiovascular risk factors, and has been confirmed in
various subsets of patients. In addition changes in LV mass parallel the
occurrence of cardiovascular fatal and non-fatal events, independently of blood
pressure and other cardiovascular risk factors. Nevertheless, LV mass
reproducibility represents one of the major technical limitations of
echocardiography and LV mass calculation may be not reliable in patients with
previous myocardial infarction or with asymmetrical hypertrophy, assuming a
prolate ellipsoid shape for the left ventricle. For this reason LV mass
measurement with cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging, which is indubitably
more accurate and reproducible, has been proposed, but with obvious limitations
related to availability and costs of the technique.Three-dimensional
echocardiographic (3DEcho) imaging represents a relevant innovation in
cardiovascular imaging. The development of fully sampled matrix-array
transducers, together with significant improvements in hardware and software of
ultrasound systems, has made possible excellent real-time imaging of the beating 
heart in 3D. More recent studies indicate that 3DEcho has an excellent accuracy
and provides better correlations that 2-dimensional echocardiography with MRI
measurements.Echocardiography may also give useful information on cardiac
functional changes, including systolic and diastolic abnormalities. LV diastole
may be accurately evaluated by assessment of transmitral flow velocities, mitral 
annular pulsed tissue Doppler imaging and left atrial volume assessment. In
uncomplicated hypertensives LV systolic dysfunction, as assessed by LV shortening
fraction (FS) and ejection fraction (EF), expressing endocardial fibers
shortening are usually preserved or even "supernormal", while midwall FS is
reduced. In the absence of major structural abnormalities, the TDI measurement of
longitudinal myocardial systolic velocity has been proposed as a reliable index
of myocardial performance, independent of LV preload and afterload.Compared to
the conventional 2D traditional approach, 3D echo offers the opportunity for a
more sophisticated assessment of LV function, by the improvement in the accuracy 
of the evaluation of left ventricular and left atrial volumes by eliminating the 
need for geometric modelling. Speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) is a
relatively new technique based on the analysis of interference patterns and
natural ultrasound beam reflections generated by tissue motion, which allows the 
derivation of multiple parameters of myocardial function and may be performed on 
2D or 3D echocardiographic or on cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. Global
longitudinal strain seems to be the most clinically useful parameter to detect
subclinical systolic myocardial dysfunction. In addition segmental and global
diastolic strain rate and LV diastolic untwist may be used to assess LV
relaxation and diastolic function.Cardiac computed tomography is used for the
estimation of coronary plaque imaging and may be used for the estimation of a
suspected aortic aneurysm or an aortic dissection, while the indications to the
use of cardiac magnetic resonance have largely increased. CMR may be applied not 
only for the assessment of LV mass and cardiac chambers volumes, but also to
visualize the amount and distribution of focal myocardial fibrosis usually
associated to hypertensive heart disease.In conclusion 3DEchocardiography, CMR
and tissue tracking technology are the most promising tool to provide accurate
measures of cardiac structure and function for a more timely identification of
preclinical organ damage.The prognostic significance of changes in EKG criteria
of LVH has been demonstrated in the Framingham population, in high CV risk
patients, in hypertensives with isolated systolic hypertension or with EKG-LVH.
Other observational, prospective studies have examined the potential clinical
benefits of regression of echocardiographic detectable LVH, and have demonstrated
that changes in LV mass, during treatment, may imply an important prognostic
significance in hypertensive patients. These studies have clearly shown that
subjects who failed to achieve LVH regression or in whom LVH developed during
follow-up are much more likely to suffer morbid events than those in whom LVH
regressed or never developed. However, regression to normal of LVH still
maintains a high risk in comparison with persistently normal LV mass. Further
information has been derived from the LIFE echocardiographic substudy: in 930
patients with EKG LVH, a decrease of 25 gr/m (i.e.one standard deviation) of LV
mass index was associated with a 20% reduction of the primary end-point,
adjusting for type of treatment, basal and treatment BP, and basal LV mass
index.Changes in geometric adaptation seem to imply a prognostic value,
independent of changes in LV mass. The persistence or the development of a
concentric geometry during treatment have been found associated to a greater
incidence of cardiovascular events, independent of changes in LV mass. The LIFE
study has provided results that confirm the prognostic influence of LV geometry, 
in addition to changes in LV mass. The better prognosis associated to regression 
of LVH may be related to the improvement of systolic and diastolic function, to
the increase of coronary flow reserve and to the decrease of cardiac arrhythmias.
However, the independent prognostic significance of changes in the left atrium,
systolic and diastolic function should be confirmed by further studies.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000500421.10785.41 
PMID: 27754006  [PubMed - in process]


52. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e44-e45.

OS 01-03 NEUTROPHIL TO LYMPHOCYTE RATIO IS CLOSELY RELATED WITH BLOOD PRESSURE
LEVEL IN HYPERTENSIVE INDIVIDUALS WITHOUT CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES; DATA FROM THE 
KOREAN REGISTRY OF TARGET ORGAN DAMAGES IN HYPERTENSION (KorHR).

Kim DY(1), Choi SW, Han SW, Youn JC, Ryu KH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Hallym University Dongtan Sacred Heart Hospital,
Korea, Republic of.

OBJECTIVE: Neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR) is a marker of systemic
inflammation and predictive of cardiovascular risk. We aimed to determine the
relationship between NLR and blood pressure (BP) parameters.
DESIGN AND METHOD: We reviewed data of 670 hypertensive subjects without
cardiovascular diseases from the Korean registry of target organ damages in
hypertension (KorHR) which were available from March 2013 to February 2016. Among
these patients, 202 subjects (aged 45.3 ± 11.1, male n = 141, 69.8%) were
available for central blood pressure, urine mircoalbuminuria and NLR data.
RESULTS: Peripheral diastolic BP(r = 0.170, p = 0.018) and central systolic
BP(r = 0.154, p = 0.032) correlated positively with log-transformed NLR with
adjustment for age, sex, presence of diabetes mellitus(DM) and dyslipidemia,
duration of hypertension and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR).
Peripheral systolic BP, brachial pulse wave velocity, peripheral pulse pressure, 
central augmentation index were not significantly correlated with log-transformed
NLR. Multiple regression analysis of log-transformed NLR showed that peripheral
diastolic BP was the only significant predictor of log-transformed NLR.(β=0.183, 
p = 0.009) CONCLUSIONS:: NLR was correlated positively with blood pressure
levels. These data suggests higher blood pressure level is associated with
increased systemic inflammation response.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000499969.56750.72 
PMID: 27753894  [PubMed - in process]


53. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e32.

POA 01-2 DIRECT VS INDIRECT LINK BETWEEN SODIUM INTAKE AND VASCULAR DISEASE.

Kawano Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Technology, Teikyo University Fukuoka, Omuta, Japan.

The relationship between salt and hypertension is well established, and salt
restriction is widely recommended in the management of hypertension. However,
people living in northeast Asia have consumed large amount of salt, and the
prevalence of hypertension and the incidence of stroke have been high in that
area. Mechanisms of salt-induced hypertension may be complex, but volume
expansion in the presence of impaired natriuretic capacity of the kidney and
action on the central nervous system and neurohormoral pathways seem to be
important. Salt is also involved in blood pressure (BP) elevation caused by other
factors, such as weight gain, stress, catecholamines, angiotensin and
aldosterone. The interaction between sodium and aldosterone appears to play a
critical role in the development of organ damage. The depressor effect of salt
restriction in hypertensive patients is well demonstrated although the response
of BP varies widely among individuals. It is suggested that population-wide
reduction in salt intake may have huge impact on the prevention of cardiovascular
disease and on medical coat through decrease in BP. Recent studied have also
shown that the association of salt consumption and cardiovascular diseases, such 
as stroke and heart failure, is independent of BP. The adverse interaction
between salt and aldosterone is also BP-independent. Although salt restriction is
important to control blood pressure and to prevent cardiovascular diseases, the
effect and safety of aggressive salt restriction remain to be clarified. There
are large limitations to accomplish and maintain a low-salt diet. Both population
strategy and individualized approach should be incorporated to reduce salt
consumption.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000499941.25363.3a 
PMID: 27753866  [PubMed - in process]


54. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e25.

ED 04-2 ASSESSMENT OF TARGET ORGAN DAMAGE DURING ANTI-HYPERTENSIVE TREATMENT:
WHAT TO USE AND HOW FREQUENTLY WE SHOULD MEASURE.

Li Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, China.

Current guidelines recommend searching for asymptomatic target organ damage (TOD)
in treated as well as in untreated hypertensive patients because that TOD is an
intermediate stage in the continuum of cardiovascular diseases and because it is 
a determinant of patients' overall cardiovascular risk. Large amount of data
demonstrated that target organ measures can predict cardiovascular mortality and 
morbidity. Nowadays, several non-invasive techniques are available and
recommended to assess TOD. The clinical values and limitations of the TOD
measures on heart, arteries, kidney and brain, including ECG- or echocardiogram- 
diagnosed LVH or other heart lesions, carotid intima-media thickness and plaques,
carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity and ankle-brachial index, microalbuminuria,
and estimated glomerular filtration rate, fundoscopy and brain imaging will be
discussed. The related recommendations of various guidelines on the assessment of
TOD will be introduced.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000499925.05170.00 
PMID: 27753850  [PubMed - in process]


55. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e18.

SY 05-2 PROGRESSION OF HYPERTENSIVE HEART DISEASE: NEW THERAPEUTIC APPROACH.

Horiuchi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ehime University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan.

Hypertensive patients have greater chances of such cardiovascular events as
stroke, coronary heart disease, heart or renal failure, peripheral artery
disease, and dementia. It is also well recognized that diabetes increases the
cardiovascular risks in concert with hypertension. Therefore, main goals for an
innovation of anti-hypertensive therapy would be to achieve further risk
reduction by targeting the functional, metabolic, and structural alterations
associated with hypertension. Professors Dzau and Braunwald et al proposed the
concept of "the cardiovascular disease continuum" in 1991, and that hypertension 
may trigger the chain of events, leading to end-stage heart disease; however,
this concept was quite new at that time, and there was some discussion whether
"the cardiovascular disease continuum" is true or not. Fifteen years later,
accumulating clinical and basic research evidence confirmed the validity of the
concept of this cardiovascular disease continuum. Oxidative stress, and
inflammation play a role in the initiation and continuation of this chain.
Therefore, targeting oxidative stress and inflammation are important to interrupt
the cardiovascular disease continuum. However, so far, neither anti-oxidative nor
anti-inflammation strategy can work well to prevent hypertension and its related 
cardiovascular diseases. Low-grade inflammation has been proposed to play a key
role in the pathogenesis of hypertension, and both innate and adaptive immune
responses may participate in this process. Recent evidence also defined important
roles of T-cell and T-cell-derived cytokines associated with angiotensin (Ang) II
and catecholamine. We expect these new findings could provide us with novel
avenues to beat hypertension, in terms of anti-oxidative stress and/or
anti-inflammation.Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) plays a significant
role in the cardiovascular disease continuum interacting with adrenergic system
and other various mediators, and thereby RAAS mediates adaptive and maladaptive
responses to tissue injury. Sympathetic hyperactivity and the activation of RAAS 
may promote hypertension or work as an amplifier of the pressor influence of
other factors such as metabolic factors. Therefore, RAAS and sympathetic nervous 
system are the major targets of treatment of hypertension and its related
cardiovascular complications. The two main interventional approaches,
transcatheter renal denervation and baroreflex activation therapy, have been used
in clinical practice for treatment of resistant hypertension and the renal
denervation is also being evaluated for treatment of various comorbidities,
although the efficacy of invasive sympatho-deactivating interventions have not
yet been conclusively validated. In the past two decades, the development of the 
drugs for the treatment of hypertension and cardiovascular diseases has been
largely focused on the inhibitors of RAAS, including immunization against Ang
II.Novel pathways beyond the classical actions of RAAS, the angiotensin
converting enzyme (ACE)/Ang II/Ang II type 1 (AT1) receptor axis, have been
highlighted: the ACE2/Ang-(1-7)/Mas receptor axis and Ang II type 2 (AT2)
receptor as a new opposing axis against the classical RAS axis as a protective
arm of RAAS. Moreover, identification of alamandine and its receptor, Mas-related
G-protein coupled receptor, provides new insights for the understanding of the
physiological and pathophysiological role of the RAS. Further elucidation of the 
regulatory mechanisms of the functions of new protective arm of RAS beyond the
classical RAAS could provide us with possibilities for the development of novel
drugs that regulate RAAS in a more sophisticated manner, thereby treating
hypertensive patients and achieving cardiovascular risk reduction more
efficiently. Agonists of protective arm of RAS have been developed as new drugs
for hypertension and several drugs of the agonists of protective arm of RAS are
now in clinical trials. Several novel Ang II receptor interacting proteins have
been also reported. AT1 receptor-associated protein (ATRAP) was cloned by us as
specific binding protein of AT1 receptor C-terminal, and we and others reported
that ATRAP could act as a negative regulator in AT1 receptor-mediated effects at 
least in part by the enhancement of AT1 receptor internalization. We cloned AT2
receptor interacting protein (ATIP) as a protein interacting specifically with
the C-terminal tail of the AT2 receptor. We and others demonstrated that ATIP
enhanced an important role of AT2 receptor-mediated wide variety of
pathophysiological functions. Further elucidation of the functional regulation of
these Ang II receptor associated proteins including their transcriptional
control, and finding possible ligands could be helpful for new drug
developments.I will review and discuss in this symposium "Progression of
Hypertensive Heart Disease" focusing on the new therapeutic pharmacological
approach with recent clinical evidences.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000499911.34772.01 
PMID: 27753836  [PubMed - in process]


56. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34 Suppl 1 - ISH 2016 Abstract Book:e18.

SY 05-1 FIBRO-INFLAMMATORY CHANGES DURING PROGRESSION OF SYSTOLIC/DIASTOLIC
DYSFUNCTION IN THE HYPERTENSIVE HEART.

Kai H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kurume University Medical Center, Japan.

There is increasing evidence that fibro-inflammatory changes play a role in
variety of cardiovascular diseases. We created new rat models to investigate the 
role of fibro-inflammatory changes in the pathophysiology of systolic and
diastolic dysfunction in hypertensive heart. (1) a model of a blood pressure (BP)
surge was created by performing abdominal aortic constriction in Wistar-Kyoto
rats. Aortic constriction rapidly increased BP and the high BP levels sustained. 
A BP surge transiently induced MCP-1 and TGF-beta induction, angiotensin
converting enzyme activation, and macrophage infiltration, followed by left
ventricular (LV) hypertrophy and perivascular reactive fibrosis. Echocardiography
showed diastolic, but not systolic, LV dysfunction in this model. A sub-depressor
dose of candesartan, angiotensin II type-1 receptor antagonist, prevented the
fibro-inflammatory changes, cardiac remodeling, and diastolic LV dysfunction. (2)
A model of hypertension with large short-term BP variability (BPV) by performing 
sino-aortic denervation (SAD) in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). In this 
model, SAD exaggerated BPV without affecting mean BP and the activity of
sympathetic nerve system and systemic renin-angiotension-aldosterone system.
Large BPV induced chronic fibro-inflammatory changes (macrophage infiltration,
MCP-1, TGF-beta, and angiotensinogen upregulations) and aggravated hypertensive
LV hypertrophy and reparative myocardial fibrosis, resulting in systolic LV
dysfunction. A sub-depressor dose of candesartan prevented the large BPV-induced 
fibro-inflammatory changes and cardiac remodeling, as well as systolic LV
dysfunction, without changing BPV itself. In conclusion, a BP surge induces
transient fibro-inflammatory changes leading to cardiac hypertrophy with
diastolic dysfunction. In contrast, large short-term BPV caused the local
angiotensin-mediated chronic fibro-inflammatory changes which aggravates
hypertensive cardiac remodeling and myaocardial damages, resulting in systolic
dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000499910.57642.9e 
PMID: 27753835  [PubMed - in process]


57. J Am Soc Hypertens. 2016 Oct;10(10):790-798.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jash.2016.08.003. 
Epub 2016 Aug 24.

Morning blood pressure surge and markers of cardiovascular alterations in
untreated middle-aged hypertensive subjects.

Pręgowska-Chwała B(1), Prejbisz A(2), Kabat M(2), Puciłowska B(2),
Paschalis-Purtak K(2), Florczak E(2), Klisiewicz A(3), Kuśmierczyk-Droszcz B(3), 
Hanus K(2), Bursztyn M(4), Januszewicz A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hypertension, Institute of Cardiology, Warsaw, Poland.
Electronic address: bpregowska@ikard.pl. (2)Department of Hypertension, Institute
of Cardiology, Warsaw, Poland. (3)Department of Congenital Heart Diseases,
Institute of Cardiology, Warsaw, Poland. (4)Hypertension Unit, Department of
Medicine, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel.

The purpose of the study was to evaluate the degree of morning blood pressure
surge (MBPS) and its relationship with markers of cardiovascular alterations in
untreated middle-aged hypertensives. We studied 241 patients (mean age,
36.6 ± 10.7 years). Subjects with higher sleep-through MBPS (st-MBPS) were older 
(P = .003), had higher carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT) (P = .05) and lower 
E/A ratio (P = .01) than those with lower MBPS. Subjects with higher prewakening 
MBPS (pw-MBPS) had significantly higher deceleration time (P = .01) compared with
those with lower pw-MBPS. St-MBPS correlated significantly with age, cIMT values,
24-hour systolic and diastolic BP, and systolic BP night-time fall. The
significant correlations between pw-MBPS and cIMT values, deceleration time,
24-hour diastolic BP and systolic BP night-time fall were observed. A
relationship between MBPS and cardiovascular alterations was observed both in
dippers and nondippers, although in non-dippers, it was less pronounced. The
results may imply a possible link between MBPS and markers of cardiovascular
alterations in untreated hypertensive subjects.

Copyright © 2016 American Society of Hypertension. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jash.2016.08.003 
PMID: 27720065  [PubMed - in process]


58. Open Access Maced J Med Sci. 2016 Sep 15;4(3):381-387. Epub 2016 Jul 10.

Risk Factors of End Stage Renal Disease in Peshawar, Pakistan: Odds Ratio
Analysis.

Khan S(1), Hussain T(2), Salahuddin N(3), Mehreen S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, College of Medicine, University
of Dammam, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. (2)Higher Education Department, Peshawar,
Pakistan. (3)Department of Statistics, Shaheed Benazir Bhutto Women University,
Peshawar, Pakistan. (4)Medical Officer, North West Hospital, Phase 5 Hayatabad,
Peshawar, Pakistan.

AIM: The basic aim of this study was to discover the association of End Stage
Renal Disease (ESRD) with various risk factors. End Stage Renal Failure is the
last stage of the chronic renal failure in which kidneys become completely fail
to function.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The data were collected from the patients of renal
diseases from three major hospitals in Peshawar, Pakistan. Odds ratio analysis
was performed to examine the relationship of ESRD (a binary response variable)
with various risk factors: Gender, Diabetic, Hypertension, Glomerulonephritis,
Obstructive Nephropathy, Polycystic kidney disease, Myeloma, SLE Nephritis,
Heredity, Hepatitis, Excess use of Drugs, heart problem and Anemia.
RESULTS: Using odds ratio analysis, the authors found that the ESRD in diabetic
patients was 11.04 times more than non-diabetic patients and the ESRD were 7.29
times less in non-hypertensive patients as compared to hypertensive patients.
Similarly, glomerulonephritis patients had 3.115 times more risk of having ESRD
than non-glomerulonephritis. Other risk factors may also, to some extent, were
causes of ESRD but turned out insignificant due to stochastic sample.
CONCLUSION: The authors concluded that there is a strong association between ESRD
and three risk factors, namely diabetes, hypertension and glomerulonephritis.

DOI: 10.3889/oamjms.2016.068 
PMCID: PMC5042619
PMID: 27703559  [PubMed - in process]


59. Med Arch. 2016 Jul 27;70(4):274-279.

Blood Pressure Control in Hypertensive Patients, Cardiovascular Risk Profile and 
the Prevalence of Masked Uncontrolled Hypertension (MUCH).

Naser N(1), Dzubur A(2), Durak A(2), Kulic M(2), Naser N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Polyclinic "Dr. Nabil", Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. (2)Institute for
heart diseases, University Clinical Center Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.

INTRODUCTION: The term masked hypertension (MH) should be used for untreated
individuals who have normal office blood pressure but elevated ambulatory blood
pressure. For treated patients, this condition should be termed masked
uncontrolled hypertension (MUCH).
RESEARCH OBJECTIVES: Masked uncontrolled hypertension (MUCH) has gone
unrecognized because few studies have used 24-h ABPM to determine the prevalence 
of suboptimal BP control in seemingly well-treated patients, and there are few
such studies in large cohorts of treated patients attending usual clinical
practice. This is important because masked hypertension is associated with a high
risk of cardiovascular events. This study was conducted to obtain more
information about the association between hypertension and other CV risk factors,
about office and ambulatory blood pressure (BP) control as well as on
cardiovascular (CV) risk profile in treated hypertensive patients, also to define
the prevalence and characteristics of masked uncontrolled hypertension (MUCH)
among treated hypertensive patients in routine clinical practice.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this study 2514 male and female patients were included
during a period of 5 years follow up. All patients have ambulatory blood pressure
monitoring (ABPM) for at least 24h. We identified patients with treated and
controlled BP according to current international guidelines (clinic BP,
140/90mmHg). Cardiovascular risk assessment was based on personal history, clinic
BP values, as well as target organ damage evaluation. Masked uncontrolled
hypertension (MUCH) was diagnosed in these patients if despite controlled clinic 
BP, the mean 24-h ABPM average remained elevated (24-h systolic BP ≥130mmHg
and/or 24-h diastolic BP ≥80mmHg).
RESULTS: Patients had a mean age of 60.2+10 years, and the majority of them
(94.6%) were followed by specialist physicians. Average clinic BP was
150.4+16/89.9+12 mmHg. About 70% of patients displayed a very high-risk profile. 
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) was performed in all recruited
patients for at least 24h. Despite the combined medical treatment (78% of the
patients), clinic control (<140/90 mmHg) was achieved in only 26.2% of patients, 
the corresponding control rate for ambulatory BP (<130/80 mmHg) being 32.7%. From
2514 patients with treated BP, we identified 803 with treated and controlled
office BP control (<140/90 mmHg), of whom 258 patients (32.1%) had MUCH according
to 24-h ABPM criteria (mean age 57.2 years, 54.7% men). The prevalence of MUCH
was slightly higher in males, patients with borderline clinic and office BP
(130-139/80-89 mmHg), and patients at high cardiovascular risk (smokers,
diabetes, obesity). Masked uncontrolled hypertension (MUCH) was most often due to
poor control of nocturnal BP, with the proportion of patients in whom MUCH was
solely attributable to an elevated nocturnal BP almost double that solely
attributable to daytime BP elevation (22.3 vs. 10.1%, P 0.001).
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of masked suboptimal BP control in patients with
treated and well-controlled clinic BP is high. The characteristics of patients
with MUCH (male, longer duration of hypertension, obesity, smoking history, and
diabetes) indicate that this is a higher-risk group with most to gain from
improved BP.

DOI: 10.5455/medarh.2016.70.274-279 
PMCID: PMC5034977
PMID: 27703288  [PubMed - in process]


60. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Sep;95(39):e4691. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000004691.

Association of obstructive sleep apnea plus hypertension and prevalent
cardiovascular diseases: A cross-sectional study.

Wang L(1), Cai A, Zhang J, Zhong Q, Wang R, Chen J, Zhou Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Guangdong Cardiovascular Institute, Guangdong
Provincial Key Laboratory of Coronary Heart Disease Prevention, Guangdong General
Hospital, Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, Guangzhou, China.

Current study sought to evaluate the associations of obstructive sleep apnea
(OSA) plus hypertension (HTN) and prevalent cardiovascular diseases (CVD).This
was a cross-sectional study and a total of 1889 subjects were enrolled. The
apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) was measured by polysomnography and OSA degree was
classified as mild (AHI 5-14.9) and moderate-severe (AHI ≥ 15), and AHI < 5 was
considered no-OSA. Mean and lowest oxyhemoglobin saturation (SaO2) was detected
by pulse oximetry. Between-group differences were assessed and logistic
regression analysis was used to analyze the association of OSA plus HTN and
prevalent CVD.Compared to normotensive subjects, hypertensive subjects were older
and had higher body mass index (BMI), neck girth, waist-hip ratio, AHI, and
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level. Conversely, mean and lowest
SaO2 levels were significantly lower. Logistic regression analysis showed that in
an unadjusted model, compared to subjects with no-OSA and no-HTN (reference
group), the association of HTN plus moderate-severe-OSA and prevalent CVD was the
most prominent (odds ratio [OR]: 2.638 and 95% confidence interval [CI]:
1.942-3.583). In normotensive subjects, after adjusted for potential covariates, 
the associations of OSA (regardless of severity) and prevalent CVD were
attenuated to nonsignificant. In hypertensive subjects, however, the associations
remained significant but were reduced. Further adjusted for mean and lowest SaO2,
the associations remained significant in HTN plus no-OSA (OR: 1.808, 95% CI:
1.207-2.707), HTN plus mild-OSA (OR: 2.003, 95% CI: 1.346-2.980), and HTN plus
moderate-severe OSA (OR: 1.834, 95% CI: 1.214-2.770) groups.OSA plus HTN is
associated with prevalent CVD, and OSA may potentiate the adverse cardiovascular 
effects on hypertensives patients but not normotensives.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000004691 
PMID: 27684798  [PubMed - in process]


61. Hypertens Res. 2016 Sep 29. doi: 10.1038/hr.2016.126. [Epub ahead of print]

Epidemiology of hypertensive disorders in pregnancy: prevalence, risk factors,
predictors and prognosis.

Umesawa M(1), Kobashi G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, Dokkyo Medical University, School of Medicine,
Tochigi, Japan.

Hypertensive disorders in pregnancy (HDP) represent some of the most important
problems faced by public health because HDP is a major cause of maternal and
prenatal morbidity and mortality. Several epidemiological studies have been
performed to determine the prevalence and risk factors of HDP as well as its
subtypes. The prevalences of HDP, gestational hypertension and preeclampsia are
5.2-8.2%, 1.8-4.4% and 0.2-9.2%, respectively. Body mass index, anemia and lower 
education appear to be modifiable risk factors for HDP. Maternal age,
primiparous, multiple pregnancy, HDP in previous pregnancy, gestational diabetes 
mellitus, preexisting hypertension, preexisting type 2 diabetes mellitus,
preexisting urinary tract infection and a family history of hypertension, type 2 
diabetes mellitus and preeclampsia appear to be nonmodifiable risk factors.
Genetic variants including a single-nucleotide polymorphism in the
angiotensinogen gene have also been reported to be nonmodifiable risk factors.
Epidemiological studies have recently examined the associations between a history
of HDP and its subtypes and future risks of other diseases. These studies have
reported associations between a history of HDP and a risk of coronary heart
disease, heart failure, dysrhythmia, stroke, hypertension, diabetes mellitus,
end-stage renal dysfunction and cardiomyopathy. HDP is not associated with the
future incidence of total cancer. In conclusion, HDP is not a rare complication
of pregnancy and the influence of HDP remains for an extended duration.
Physicians should consider the effects of HDP when treating chronic diseases in
women.Hypertension Research advance online publication, 29 September 2016;
doi:10.1038/hr.2016.126.

DOI: 10.1038/hr.2016.126 
PMID: 27682655  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


62. J Pediatr. 2017 Jan;180:156-162.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2016.08.063. Epub 2016
Sep 22.

Prominent Intrapulmonary Bronchopulmonary Anastomoses and Abnormal Lung
Development in Infants and Children with Down Syndrome.

Bush D(1), Abman SH(2), Galambos C(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Pediatric Heart Lung Center, University of Colorado School of Medicine and
Children's Hospital Colorado, Aurora, CO; Department of Pediatrics, The Section
of Pulmonary Medicine, University of Colorado School of Medicine and Children's
Hospital Colorado, Aurora, CO. Electronic address:
doug.bush@childrenscolorado.org. (2)The Pediatric Heart Lung Center, University
of Colorado School of Medicine and Children's Hospital Colorado, Aurora, CO;
Department of Pediatrics, The Section of Pulmonary Medicine, University of
Colorado School of Medicine and Children's Hospital Colorado, Aurora, CO. (3)The 
Pediatric Heart Lung Center, University of Colorado School of Medicine and
Children's Hospital Colorado, Aurora, CO; Department of Pathology, University of 
Colorado School of Medicine and Children's Hospital Colorado, Aurora, CO.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the frequency of histologic features of impaired lung
vascular and alveolar development and to identify the presence of intrapulmonary 
bronchopulmonary anastomoses (IBA) in infants and children who died with Down
syndrome.
STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective review of autopsy reports and lung histology from
13 children with Down syndrome (ages: 0-8 years) was performed. Histologic
features of abnormal lung development were identified and semiquantified,
including the presence of IBA. Three-dimensional reconstructions of IBA were also
performed. Comparisons were made with 4 age-matched patients without Down
syndrome with congenital heart defects who underwent autopsies during this time
period.
RESULTS: Of the 13 subjects with Down syndrome, 69% died from cardiac events, 77%
had a congenital heart defect, and 46% had a clinical diagnosis of pulmonary
hypertension. Lung histology from all subjects with Down syndrome demonstrated
alveolar simplification, and 92% had signs of persistence of a double capillary
network in the distal lung. The lungs from the subjects with Down syndrome
frequently had features of pulmonary arterial hypertensive remodeling (85%), and 
prominent bronchial vessels and IBA were observed in all subjects with Down
syndrome. These features were more frequent in subjects with Down syndrome
compared with control subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with Down syndrome who died of cardiopulmonary diseases
often have histologic evidence of impaired lung alveolar and vascular
development, including the presence of prominent IBA and pulmonary hypertension. 
We speculate that children with Down syndrome are at risk for reduced lung
surface area and recruitment of IBA, which may worsen gas exchange in subjects
with Down syndrome.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2016.08.063 
PMID: 27666181  [PubMed - in process]


63. Clin Investig Arterioscler. 2016 Sep - Oct;28(5):216-224. doi:
10.1016/j.arteri.2016.05.006. Epub 2016 Sep 21.

Serum uric acid as prognostic marker of coronary heart disease (CHD).

Purnima S(1), El-Aal BG(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Applied Medical Sciences, Prince Sattam Bin Abdul Aziz University, 
Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: sp_purnima@yahoo.com. (2)College of Applied
Medical Sciences, Prince Sattam Bin Abdul Aziz University, Saudi Arabia;
Community Health Nursing, Faculty of Nursing, Menoufiya University, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: A substantial body of epidemiological and experimental evidence
suggests the significance of serum uric acid as an important and independent risk
factor of cardio vascular and renal diseases especially in patients with diabetes
mellitus, hypertension. Hyperuricemia is a risk factor of coronary heart disease.
Several studies showed positive association between hyperuricemia and CHD risk
factors.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the serum uric acid levels in patients with diabetes and
hypertension, which helps in understanding its role as prognostic marker of
coronary heart disease.
METHOD: The study was conducted in population of Wadi-Al Dawasir (K.S.A.) aged
20-80 years through random sampling from October 2012 to June 2013. It included
250 samples and the cases were categorized into diabetic and hypertensive. In the
cases, purely hypertensive were 52, diabetic were 57 and mixed group included
both diabetic and hypertensive patients 65. Fasting blood was collected to
analyze lipid profile which included (total cholesterol, triglycerides, high
density lipoprotein, low density lipoprotein) and serum uric acid in association 
with age and heredity was also studied. Patient demographics were recorded.
RESULTS: The study revealed significant association of serum uric acid (p<0.014*)
and total cholesterol (p<0.007**) triglycerides (p<0.009**) low density
lipoprotein (p<0.044*) in hypertensive group. Serum uric acid levels in the mixed
group patients with diabetes and hypertension reported serum uric acid
(p<0.0037), total cholesterol (p<0.089+) proved to have increased risk of
coronary heart disease. When compared to controls (non-diabetic p<0.529) and
(non-hypertensive p<0.021*) with respect to serum uric acid levels show the
magnitude of risk to coronary heart disease. With progressing age the association
of lipid profile and serum uric acid reported (p<0.001**) in diabetics.
CONCLUSION: Significant correlations were found between serum uric acid and risk 
factors for CHD. This is first study of its kind in this region of K.S.A., which 
helps the community to understand the role of serum uric acid in coronary heart
disease, justifies the objective of research in taking preventive measures to
combat the deleterious effect of coronary heart disease. Prevention and early
detection of elevated uric acid in both hypertensive and diabetic patients could 
serve as effective investigative tool in reducing coronary heart disease.

Copyright © 2016 Sociedad Española de Arteriosclerosis. Publicado por Elsevier
España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arteri.2016.05.006 
PMID: 27663421  [PubMed - in process]


64. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Sep 6;50(9):776-781. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2016.09.006.

[Mortality attributable to high body mass index in Chinese people aged 15 or
over, in 1990 and 2013].

[Article in Chinese]

Zeng XY(1), Li YC, Liu SW, Zhou MG, Wang LJ, Yin P, Liu YN, Liu JM, You JL.

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050,
China.

Objective: To analyze and compare deaths(mortality)attributable to high body mass
index(BMI)in Chinese population aged ≥15 years between 1990 and 2013. Methods: We
used the results of the 2013 Global Burden of Disease Study for China, based on
population attributable fractions(PAF)to analyze deaths attributable to high BMI 
in all provinces(not including Taiwan, China)in 1990 and 2013. The average world 
population from 2000 to 2025 was used as a reference to calculate
age-standardized mortality rates, and to compare the change of attributable
deaths in 1990 and 2013. Results: In 2013, the number of deaths attributable to
high BMI was 640 294, compared with 301 231 in 1990, an increase of 114.27%.
Compared with 1990, in 2013, the number of deaths and age-standardized mortality 
rate attributable to high BMI showed a higher growth rate in men(142.81% and
30.74%, respectively)than women(84.69% and 2.88% , respectively). The growth rate
of attributable deaths increased with age. Compared with 1990, in 2013, the
growth rates of attributable deaths among 15-49, 50-69 and ≥70 years age groups
were 63.37%, 89.11% and 183.64%, respectively. In both 1990 and 2013, the top
three diseases in terms of deaths attributable to high BMI were stroke(128 657
and 247 042, respectively), ischemic heart disease(57 173 and 156 614,
respectively), and hypertensive heart disease(34 960 and 58 435, respectively).
Compared with 1990, in 2013, the standardized mortality rates of chronic kidney
disease(129.44%), pancreatic cancer(101.76%), colorectal cancer(85.45%)and breast
cancer(63.86%)showed more substantial increases. In 1990, the top three provinces
with most deaths attributable to high BMI were Henan(31 376), Shandong(27 969)and
Hebei(24 164), while in 2013 they were Shandong(61 897), Hebei(58 383)and
Henan(57 501). Compared with 1990, in 2013, the age-standardized mortality rate
attributable to high BMI increased in 26 of 33 provinces, with a faster increase 
in Qinghai(56.96%), Guizhou(45.30%)and Yunnan(39.39%). The rate declined in the
other seven provinces, declining faster in Tianjin(20.68%), Macao(14.08%)and
Jilin(6.86%). Conclusion: Deaths and age-standardized mortality rates
attributable to high BMI increased rapidly between 1990 and 2013, with higher
increases in men than in women. Age-standardized mortality rates of chronic
kidney disease, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer and breast cancer
attributable to high BMI showed much higher growth rates than other attributed
diseases. The highest BMI-attributed age-standardized mortality rates were found 
in northeast and northern provinces, and the fastest growth rates of
BMI-attributed age-standardized mortality rates were observed in southwest and
northwest provinces.


PMID: 27655596  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


65. Dis Markers. 2016;2016:3695454. doi: 10.1155/2016/3695454. Epub 2016 Aug 18.

Detection of Soluble ED-A(+) Fibronectin and Evaluation as Novel Serum Biomarker 
for Cardiac Tissue Remodeling.

Ziffels B(1), Ospel J(2), Grün K(2), Neri D(3), Pfeil A(4), Fritzenwanger M(2),
Figulla HR(2), Jung C(5), Berndt A(6), Franz M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Jena University Hospital, Department of Internal Medicine I, 07747 Jena,
Germany; Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Department of Chemistry and
Applied Biosciences, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland. (2)Jena University Hospital,
Department of Internal Medicine I, 07747 Jena, Germany. (3)Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology, Department of Chemistry and Applied Biosciences, 8093
Zurich, Switzerland. (4)Jena University Hospital, Department of Internal Medicine
III, 07747 Jena, Germany. (5)Jena University Hospital, Department of Internal
Medicine I, 07747 Jena, Germany; Medical Faculty, Division of Cardiology,
Pulmonology, and Vascular Medicine, University of Duesseldorf, 40225 Duesseldorf,
Germany. (6)Jena University Hospital, Institute of Pathology, 07743 Jena,
Germany.

Background and Aims. Fibronectin containing the extra domain A (ED-A(+) Fn) was
proven to serve as a valuable biomarker for cardiac remodeling. The study was
aimed at establishing an ELISA to determine ED-A(+) Fn in serum of heart failure 
patients. Methods. ED-A(+) Fn was quantified in serum samples from 114 heart
failure patients due to ischemic (ICM, n = 44) and dilated (DCM, n = 39)
cardiomyopathy as well as hypertensive heart disease (HHD, n = 31) compared to
healthy controls (n = 12). Results. In comparison to healthy volunteers, heart
failure patients showed significantly increased levels of ED-A(+) Fn (p < 0.001).
In particular in ICM patients there were significant associations between ED-A(+)
Fn serum levels and clinical parameters, for example, increased levels with
rising NYHA class (p = 0.013), a negative correlation with left ventricular
ejection fraction (p = 0.026, r: -0.353), a positive correlation with left atrial
diameter (p = 0.008, r: 0.431), and a strong positive correlation with systolic
pulmonary artery pressure (p = 0.002, r: 0.485). In multivariate analysis,
ED-A(+) Fn was identified as an independent predictor of an ischemic heart
failure etiology. Conclusions. The current study could clearly show that ED-A(+) 
Fn is a promising biomarker in cardiovascular diseases, especially in heart
failure patients due to an ICM. We presented a valid ELISA method, which could be
applied for further studies investigating the value of ED-A(+) Fn.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/3695454 
PMCID: PMC5007333
PMID: 27635109  [PubMed - in process]


66. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2016 Aug;107(2):93-8. doi: 10.5935/abc.20160120.

I RBH - First Brazilian Hypertension Registry.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Jardim PC(1), Souza WK(1), Lopes RD(2), Brandão AA(3), Malachias MV(4), Gomes
MM(5), Moreno Júnior H(6), Barbosa EC(7), Póvoa RM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Goiás, Goiânia, GO, Brazil. (2)Universidade Federal de
São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil. (3)Universidade Estadual do Rio de Janeiro, Rio
de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil. (4)Faculdade de Ciências Médicas de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brazil. (5)Universidade Estadual de Alagoas, Alto Cruzeiro
Arapiraca, AL, Brazil. (6)Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, SP,
Brazil. (7)Instituto de Cardiologia de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: A registry assessing the care of hypertensive patients in daily
clinical practice in public and private centers in various Brazilian regions has 
not been conducted to date. Such analysis is important to elucidate the
effectiveness of this care.
OBJECTIVE: To document the current clinical practice for the treatment of
hypertension with identification of the profile of requested tests, type of
administered treatment, level of blood pressure (BP) control, and adherence to
treatment.
METHODS: National, observational, prospective, and multicenter study that will
include patients older than 18 years with hypertension for at least 4 weeks,
following up in public and private centers and after signing a consent form. The 
study will exclude patients undergoing dialysis, hospitalized in the previous 30 
days, with class III or IV heart failure, pregnant or nursing, with severe liver 
disease, stroke or acute myocardial infarction in the past 30 days, or with
diseases with a survival prognosis < 1 year. Evaluations will be performed at
baseline and after 1 year of follow-up. The parameters that will be evaluated
include anthropometric data, lifestyle habits, BP levels, lipid profile,
metabolic syndrome, and adherence to treatment. The primary outcomes will be
hospitalization due to hypertensive crisis, cardiocirculatory events, and
cardiovascular death, while secondary outcomes will be hospitalization for heart 
failure and requirement of dialysis. A subgroup analysis of 15% of the sample
will include noninvasive central pressure evaluation at baseline and study end.
The estimated sample size is 3,000 individuals for a prevalence of 5%, sample
error of 2%, and 95% confidence interval.
RESULTS: The results will be presented after the final evaluation, which will
occur at the end of a 1-year follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The analysis of this registry will improve the knowledge and optimize
the treatment of hypertension in Brazil, as a way of modifying the prognosis of
cardiovascular disease in the country.

DOI: 10.5935/abc.20160120 
PMCID: PMC5074061
PMID: 27627639  [PubMed - in process]


67. J Geriatr Cardiol. 2016 Jul;13(7):573-9. doi:
10.11909/j.issn.1671-5411.2016.07.003.

Association of resting heart rate and hypertension stages on all-cause and
cardiovascular mortality among elderly Koreans: the Kangwha Cohort Study.

Ryu M(1), Bayasgalan G(2), Kimm H(3), Nam CM(4), Ohrr H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute on Aging, Ajou University Medical Center, Suwon, South Korea;
College of Physical Education, Kyonggi University, Suwon, South Korea.
(2)Department of Public Health, the Graduate School, Yonsei University, Seoul,
South Korea. (3)Department of Epidemiology and Health Promotion, Institute for
Health Promotion, Graduate School of Public Health, Yonsei University, Seoul,
South Korea. (4)Department of Preventive Medicine, Yonsei University College of
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: Elevated resting heart rate and hypertension independently increase
the risk of mortality. However, their combined effect on mortality in stages of
hypertension according to updated clinical guidelines among elderly population is
unclear.
METHODS: We followed a cohort of 6100 residents (2600 males and 3500 females) of 
Kangwha County, Korea, ranging from 55 to 99 year-olds as of March 1985, for
all-cause and cardiovascular mortality for 20.8 years until December 31, 2005.
Mortality data were collected through telephone calls and visits (to 1991), and
were confirmed by death record matching with the National Statistical Office
(1992-2005). Hazard ratios were calculated for all-cause and cardiovascular
mortality by resting heart rate and hypertension defined by Eighth Joint National
Committee criteria using the Cox proportional hazard model after controlling for 
confounding factors.
RESULTS: The hazard ratios associated with resting heart rate > 80 beats/min were
higher in hypertensive men compared with normotensives with heart rate of 61-79
beats/min, with hazard ratios values of 1.43 (95% CI: 1.00-1.92) on all-cause
mortality for prehypertension, 3.01 (95% CI: 1.07-8.28) on cardiovascular
mortality for prehypertension, and 8.34 (95% CI: 2.52-28.19) for stage 2
hypertension. Increased risk (HR: 3.54, 95% CI: 1.16-9.21) was observed among
those with both a resting heart rate ≥ 80 beats/min and prehypertension on
cardiovascular mortality in women.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals with coexisting elevated resting heart rate and
hypertension, even in prehypertension, have a greater risk for all-cause and
cardiovascular mortality compared to those with elevated resting heart rate or
hypertension alone. These findings suggest that elevated resting heart rate
should not be regarded as a less serious risk factor in elderly hypertensive
patients.

DOI: 10.11909/j.issn.1671-5411.2016.07.003 
PMCID: PMC4996831
PMID: 27605937  [PubMed]


68. Br J Pharmacol. 2016 Sep 2. doi: 10.1111/bph.13613. [Epub ahead of print]

T-cell immunity in myocardial inflammation: pathogenic role and therapeutic
manipulation.

Stephenson E(1,)(2), Savvatis K(1,)(2,)(3), Mohiddin SA(1,)(2,)(3), Marelli-Berg 
FM(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)William Harvey Research Institute, London, UK. (2)Barts and The London School 
of Medicine, London, UK. (3)Department of Cardiology, Barts Heart Centre, St.
Bartholomew NHS Trust, London, UK. (4)William Harvey Research Institute, London, 
UK. f.marelli-berg@qmul.ac.uk. (5)Barts and The London School of Medicine,
London, UK. f.marelli-berg@qmul.ac.uk.

T-cell-mediated immunity has been linked not only to a variety of heart diseases,
including classic inflammatory diseases such as myocarditis and post-myocardial
infarction (Dressler's) syndrome, but also to conditions without an obvious
inflammatory component such as idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and hypertensive
cardiomyopathy. It has been recently proposed that in all these conditions, the
heart becomes the focus of T-cell-mediated autoimmune inflammation following
ischaemic or infectious injury. For example, in acute myocarditis, an
inflammatory disease of heart muscle, T-cell responses are thought to arise as a 
consequence of a viral infection. In a number of patients, persistent
T-cell-mediated responses in acute viral myocarditis can lead to autoimmunity and
chronic cardiac inflammation resulting in dilated cardiomyopathy. In spite of the
major progress made in understanding the mechanisms of pathogenic T-cell
responses, effective and safe therapeutic targeting of the immune system in
chronic inflammatory diseases of the heart has not yet been developed due to the 
lack of specific diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers at an early stage. This has
also prevented the identification of targets for patient-tailored
immunomodulatory therapies that are both disease- and organ-selective. In this
review, we discuss current knowledge of the development and functional
characteristics of pathogenic T-cell-mediated immune responses in the heart, and,
in particular, in myocarditis, as well as recent advances in experimental models 
which have the potential to translate into heart-selective immunomodulation.

© 2016 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.13613 
PMID: 27590129  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


69. Medwave. 2016 Jul 7;16(6):e6492. doi: 10.5867/medwave.2016.06.6492.

Factors associated to hypertensive heart disease development: a prospective
cohort study in Bayamo, Cuba.

[Article in English, Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Álvarez Aliaga A(1), González Aguilera JC(2), Maceo Gómez Ldel R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Universitario Carlos Manuel de Céspedes, Bayamo, Granma, Cuba.
Address: Carretera Central Km 1, Vía Santiago de Cuba, Bayamo, Granma, Cuba.
Email: alexis.grm@infomed.sld.cu. (2)Hospital Universitario Carlos Manuel de
Céspedes, Bayamo, Granma, Cuba. (3)Policlínico Universitario Jimmy Hirzel,
Bayamo, Granma, Cuba.

INTRODUCTION: Among the conditions resulting from target organ damage by arterial
hypertension, hypertensive cardiopathy is the one that exhibits the highest
morbidity and mortality rates. Its prevention should be a target of all high
blood pressure medical care programs.
OBJECTIVE: To identify risk factors for the development of hypertensive
cardiopathy.
METHODS: A prospective cohort study was carried out in hypertensive patients
assisted at the specialized arterial hypertension physicians offices of the
Carlos Manuel de Céspedes Specialty Policlinic attached to the General
University Hospital, Bayamo Municipality, Granma Province, Cuba, from January
1st, 2000 to December 31st, 2009.
RESULTS: Multivariate analysis done to estimate the hazard rate (HR) of
developing hypertensive cardiopathy, showed significant independent statistic
association for most factors. The first place was occupied by lack of blood
pressure control (HR=2.022; 95% CI: 1.659-2.465; p<0.005), followed by
hypertension stage 2 (HR=2.015; 95% CI: 1.715-2.366; p<0.005). Another factors
with significant HRs were microalbuminuria (HR=1.9; 95% CI: 1.6-2.2) and age over
60 years (HR=1.6; 95% CI: 1.4-1.9).
CONCLUSIONS: Several risk factors must be considered for the prevention of
hypertensive heart disease in high blood pressure patients.

Publisher: La afección de órganos diana por hipertensión arterial que presenta
mayor morbilidad y mortalidad es la cardiopatía hipertensiva. Su prevención
debería ser objeto de los programas de atención a pacientes
hipertensos.Identificar la influencia de los diferentes factores de riesgo para
el desarrollo de la cardiopatía hipertensiva.Realizamos un estudio prospectivo de
cohorte en pacientes hipertensos atendidos en la consulta especializada de
hipertensión arterial de la policlínica de especialidades del Hospital General
Universitario Carlos Manuel de Céspedes del municipio Bayamo, Cuba, desde el
1ro de enero de 2000 hasta el 31 de diciembre de 2009.El análisis multivariado
mostró una relación estadística significativa independiente entre la mayoría de
los factores y el riesgo de aparición de la cardiopatía. El lugar más relevante
lo ocupó la falta de control adecuado de la presión arterial (HR: 2,022; IC 95%: 
1,659-2,465; p<0,005) seguido por el estadio 2 de la hipertensión arterial (HR:
2,015; IC 95%: 1,715-2,366; p< 0,005). Otros factores con HR significativos
fueron la microalbuminuria (HR=1,9; IC 95%: 1,6-2,2) y la edad mayor de 60 años
(HR=1,6; IC 95%: 1,4-1,9).Varios factores de riesgo deberán tenerse en cuenta
para la prevención de cardiopatía hipertensiva en pacientes hipertensos.

PMID: 27571318  [PubMed - in process]


70. J Hypertens. 2016 Nov;34(11):2280-6. doi: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000001073.

Left ventricular hypertrophy is a predictor of cardiovascular events in elderly
hypertensive patients: Hypertension in the Very Elderly Trial.

Antikainen RL(1), Peters R, Beckett NS, Fagard RH, Wang JG, Rajkumar C, Bulpitt
CJ.

Author information: 
(1)aCenter for Life-Course Health Research/Geriatrics, University of Oulu
bMedical Research Center Oulu, Oulu University Hospital cOulu City Hospital,
Oulu, Finland dImperial College eGuys and St Thomas' NHS Trust, London, UK
fHypertension Unit, Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, KU Leuven University, 
Leuven, Belgium gCentre for Epidemiological Studies and Clinical Trials, Shanghai
Key Laboratory of Hypertension, The Shanghai Institute of Hypertension, Ruijin
Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China
hBrighton and Sussex Medical School, Brighton, UK.

OBJECTIVE: We assessed the prognostic value of ECG left ventricular hypertrophy
(LVH) using Sokolow-Lyon (SL-LVH), Cornell voltage (CV-LVH) or Cornell product
(CP-LVH) criteria in 3043 hypertensive people aged 80 years and over enrolled in 
the Hypertension in the Very Elderly Trial.
METHODS: Multivariate Cox proportional hazard models were used to estimate hazard
ratios with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for all-cause mortality,
cardiovascular diseases, stroke and heart failure in participants with and
without LVH at baseline. The mean follow-up was 2.1 years.
RESULTS: LVH identified by CV-LVH or CP-LVH criteria was associated with a
1.6-1.9-fold risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke. The presence of CP-LVH
was associated with an increased risk of heart failure (hazard ratio 2.38, 95% CI
1.16-4.86). In sex-specific analyses, CV-LVH (hazard ratio 1.94, 95% CI
1.06-3.55) and CP-LVH (hazard ratio 2.36, 95% CI 1.25-4.45) were associated with 
an increased risk of stroke in women and of heart failure in men, CV-LVH (hazard 
ratio 6.47, 95% CI 1.41-29.79) and CP-LVH (10.63, 95% CI 3.58-31.57),
respectively. There was no significant increase in the risk of any outcomes
associated with Sokolow-Lyon-LVH. LVH identified by these three methods was not a
significant predictor of all-cause mortality.
CONCLUSION: Use of Cornell voltage and Cornell product criteria for LVH predicted
the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke. Only Cornell product was
associated with an increased risk of heart failure. This was particularly the
case in men. The identification of ECG LVH proved to be important in very elderly
hypertensive people.

DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000001073 
PMID: 27552643  [PubMed - in process]


71. Am J Hypertens. 2016 Oct;29(10):1140-7. doi: 10.1093/ajh/hpw062. Epub 2016 Aug
19.

Differential Regulatory Role of Soluble Klothos on Cardiac Fibrogenesis in
Hypertension.

Liu X(1), Chen Y(2), McCoy CW(2), Zhao T(2), Quarles DL(3), Pi M(3), Bhattacharya
SK(2), King G(4), Sun Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China;
(2)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Department of Medicine, University of
Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN; (3)Division of Nephrology,
Department of Medicine, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis,
TN; (4)Department of Neurobiology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham,
Birmingham, AL. (5)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Department of Medicine,
University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN; yasun@uthsc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Soluble Klotho functions as an endocrine factor that plays important 
roles in a variety of pathophysiological processes. Soluble Klotho contains 130
KDa and 65 KDa isoforms. However, their distinct individual functional
heterogeneity remains uncertain. Herein, we investigated the regulatory role of
two soluble Klothos on cardiac fibrogenic responses.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The effect of soluble Klothos on myofibroblast
differentiation, proliferation, and collagen synthesis/degradation were examined 
in cultured mouse cardiac myofibroblasts. The role of 130 KDa Klotho on fibrosis 
in hypertensive heart disease were examined in wild type (WT) and Klotho
transgenic (Tg/+) mice receiving chronic angiotensin (Ang)II infusion. Our in
vitro studies revealed that addition of 130 KDa soluble Klotho isoform increased 
collagen synthesis in a dose dependent manner. Furthermore, 130 KDa Klotho
significantly stimulated myofibroblast differentiation, proliferation, and ERK
phosphorylation, which were abolished by fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor 
antagonist (SU5402). In contrast, 65 KDa soluble Klotho treatment significantly
suppressed myofibroblast proliferation and collagen synthesis. In vivo study
further demonstrated that chronic AngII infusion lead to cardiac fibrosis in both
WT and Tg/+ mice. However, cardiac collagen, TGF-β1, TIMP-2, and α-smooth muscle 
actin (SMA) levels were markedly upregulated in Tg/+ mice compared to WT cohort.
CONCLUSION: Taken together, these findings implicate that 130 KDa soluble Klotho 
plays a stimulatory role in cardiac myofibroblast growth and activity through FGF
pathway, whereas 65 KDa soluble Klotho exerts an anti-fibrotic effect in cardiac 
myofibroblasts. Thus, two distinct isoforms of soluble Klotho appear to play the 
counter-regulatory roles in cardiac fibrogenic responses.

© American Journal of Hypertension, Ltd 2016. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ajh/hpw062 
PMCID: PMC5018999 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27543985  [PubMed - in process]


72. Niger J Clin Pract. 2016 Sep-Oct;19(5):668-72. doi: 10.4103/1119-3077.188709.

Antihypertensive use, prescription patterns, and cost of medications in a
Teaching Hospital in Lagos, Nigeria.

Bakare OQ(1), Akinyinka MR(1), Goodman O(1), Kuyinu YA(1), Wright OK(1), Adeniran
A(1), Odusanya OO(1), Osibogun A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community Health, College of Medicine, Lagos State University,
Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria.

INTRODUCTION: Hypertension has been reported as the strongest modifiable risk
factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
AIMS: The aim of the study was to identify the most prescribed antihypertensive
drugs, its patterns, comorbidities, cost of medications, and laboratory
investigations.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: This study was a cross-sectional, descriptive study of
hypertensive patients conducted at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, 
Ikeja.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A total of 200 case notes were retrieved from the medical
records unit over a period of 8 weeks. Information on antihypertensive
prescriptions and comorbidities was retrieved. The average cost of medications
and laboratory investigations was calculated. Statistical Analysis Tool Used:
SPSS software version 16.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 58.44 ± 12.65 years. Of the 200
patients, 5 (2.5%) were on monotherapy and 195 (97.5%) were on combination
therapy. One hundred and twenty (60%) patients had comorbidities which included
congestive heart failure 55 (27.5%), diabetes mellitus 22 (11%), hyperlipidemia
15 (7.5%), and cardiovascular disease 13 (6.5%). The various classes of
antihypertensive drugs prescribed were diuretics 128 (64.0%), beta-blockers 126
(63.0%), calcium channel blockers 106 (53.0%), angiotensin-converting enzymes
inhibitors 103 (51.5%), angiotensin receptor blockers 33 (16.5%), alpha blockers 
9 (4.5%), and fixed drug combinations 2 (1.0%). The average cost per month of the
antihypertensive medications was ₦ 2045 (US$10.2).
CONCLUSIONS: Antihypertensive prescription pattern was in accordance with the
seventh report of Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, 
and Treatment of high blood pressure. Community-based insurance scheme should be 
encouraged and effective implementation of integrated noncommunicable diseases
screening into the primary health care services would be helpful.

DOI: 10.4103/1119-3077.188709 
PMID: 27538558  [PubMed - in process]


73. Mol Cell Biochem. 2016 Sep;420(1-2):185-94. doi: 10.1007/s11010-016-2788-9. Epub 
2016 Aug 11.

Mitoprotective antioxidant EUK-134 stimulates fatty acid oxidation and prevents
hypertrophy in H9C2 cells.

Purushothaman S(1), Nair RR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cellular and Molecular Cardiology, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute
for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, 695011, India.
(2)Division of Cellular and Molecular Cardiology, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute
for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, 695011, India.
renuka@sctimst.ac.in.

Oxidative stress is an important contributory factor for the development of
cardiovascular diseases like hypertension-induced hypertrophy. Mitochondrion is
the major source of reactive oxygen species. Hence, protecting mitochondria from 
oxidative damage can be an effective therapeutic strategy for the prevention of
hypertensive heart disease. Conventional antioxidants are not likely to be
cardioprotective, as they cannot protect mitochondria from oxidative damage.
EUK-134 is a salen-manganese complex with superoxide dismutase and catalase
activity. The possible role of EUK-134, a mitoprotective antioxidant, in the
prevention of hypertrophy of H9C2 cells was examined. The cells were stimulated
with phenylephrine (50 μM), and hypertrophy was assessed based on cell volume and
expression of brain natriuretic peptide and calcineurin. Enhanced myocardial
lipid peroxidation and protein carbonyl content, accompanied by nuclear
factor-kappa B gene expression, confirmed the presence of oxidative stress in
hypertrophic cells. Metabolic shift was evident from reduction in the expression 
of medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase. Mitochondrial oxidative stress was
confirmed by the reduced expression of mitochondria-specific antioxidant
peroxiredoxin-3 and enhanced mitochondrial superoxide production. Compromised
mitochondrial function was apparent from reduced mitochondrial membrane
potential. Pretreatment with EUK-134 (10 μM) was effective in the prevention of
hypertrophic changes in H9C2 cells, reduction of oxidative stress, and prevention
of metabolic shift. EUK-134 treatment improved the oxidative status of
mitochondria and reversed hypertrophy-induced reduction of mitochondrial membrane
potential. Supplementation with EUK-134 is therefore identified as a novel
approach to attenuate cardiac hypertrophy and lends scope for the development of 
EUK-134 as a therapeutic agent in the management of human cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-016-2788-9 
PMID: 27514538  [PubMed - in process]


74. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2016 Aug 11. [Epub ahead of print]

Drug utilization and blood pressure control in ambulatory hypertensive patients: 
focus on those with compelling indications.

Adedapo AD, Akunne OO, Oladapo OO, Salako BL.

OBJECTIVE: Compelling indications require the use of specific antihypertensive
drug classes and often two or more antihypertensive medications for blood
pressure (BP) control. This study assessed drug utilization patterns among
hypertensive patients with compelling indications, conformity with recommended
guidelines, and the effect on BP control.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A prospective, cross-sectional study of hypertensive
patients attending three subspecialty hospital clinics. Data on demographics,
prescriptions, and BP were collected. BP control was defined as BP less than
140/90 mmHg in nondiabetic subjects and less than 130/80 for those with diabetes.
Analysis was done with SPSS version 17.
RESULTS: Of the 1,926 patients with hypertension, 877 (45.5%) had compelling
indications. Patients were aged 59.3 ± 11.5 years. The most
frequently-encountered compelling indications were hypertensive heart disease
(35.8%), diabetic mellitus (31.9%), and renal diseases (11.5%). The most
prescribed drug was angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEIs), which was
present in 22.6% of all prescriptions. Only 23.1% of patients had fully
controlled BP. Poor BP control significantly correlated with the number of
antihypertensive drugs r = 0.205, p < 0.001, but negatively correlated with age
and duration of hypertension, r = -0.071, p = 0.038 and r = -0.448, p = 0.042,
respectively.
CONCLUSION: BP control was very poor in this study, and there was a high
prevalence of compelling indications. Poor control was negatively correlated with
increasing age and duration of hypertension. The most common compelling
indications were hypertensive heart disease, diabetes mellitus, and renal
disease.

DOI: 10.5414/CP202560 
PMID: 27509827  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


75. Int J Epidemiol. 2016 Aug;45(4):1020-1031. Epub 2016 Aug 7.

Relationship of childhood weight status to morbidity in adults.

Abraham S(1), Collins G(1), Nordsieck M(1).

Author information: 
(1)*At the time this study was made, the authors were with the Heart Disease
Program, Regional Medical Programs Service, Public Health Service. They were
assisted by Miss Anne Alderman, a statistician. At present, Mr Abraham is acting 
chief, Nutrition Statistics Branch, Division of Health Examination Statistics,
National Center for Health Statistics; Miss Collins is assistant chief of the
Demonstrations and Technical Services Branch, Nutrition Program, Center for
Disease Control; Miss Nordsieck is a statistician in the National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Disease. Tearsheet requests to Sidney Abraham, Room 8A-44,
Parklawn Bldg., 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Md. 20852.

A cohort of white males who had attended elementary schools in Hagerstown, Md.,
between 1923 and 1928, and whose height-weight records for those years were
available, was examined during 1961-63. A study of their childhood relative
weight at ages 9-13, and of their adult relative weight 35-40 years later, was
made in relation to selected physiological variables and diagnosed
morbidity.Essential findings were as follows: Childhood relative weight at ages
9-13 had no significant relationship to adult levels of fasting blood sugar,
serum cholesterol, beta-lipoprotein, or blood pressure, or to cardiovascular
renal disease.Childhood relative weight at ages 9-13 was significantly related to
hypertensive vascular disease. The below average weight group experienced a
higher prevalence than observed in either average or moderately overweight
childhood groups.Approximately 30 percent of the below average weight children
became average weight adults and 21 percent became overweight adults. Of the
average weight children, approximately 40 percent became overweight adults.
Overweight children tended to remain overweight as adults.Adult relative weight
of the same cohort, viewed 35-40 years later, was significantly associated with
fasting blood sugar, beta-lipoprotein, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure.
Elevated levels of each of these variables occurred with greater frequency in the
overweight child.Adult relative weight was significantly associated with
hypertensive vascular disease and cardiovascular renal disease; the higher
prevalence occurred in the overweight adults.The highest risk for hypertensive
vascular and cardiovascular renal disease was associated with the persons who
acquired their overweight status as adults. The higher prevalence of these
diseases among the overweight adults was largely attributable to the adults who
moved from a below average childhood weight category to an overweight adult
group. The moderately or markedly overweight adults who was similarly classified 
as a child did not appear to be at greater risk than the average weight adult who
had been an average weight child.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyw171 
PMID: 27498297  [PubMed - in process]


76. Eur J Intern Med. 2016 Aug 3. pii: S0953-6205(16)30234-5. doi:
10.1016/j.ejim.2016.07.026. [Epub ahead of print]

High serum uric acid is associated to poorly controlled blood pressure and higher
arterial stiffness in hypertensive subjects.

Cicero AF(1), Rosticci M(2), Fogacci F(2), Grandi E(2), D'Addato S(2), Borghi
C(2); Brisighella Heart Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna,
Italy. Electronic address: arrigo.cicero@unibo.it. (2)Department of Medicine and 
Surgery Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Serum uric acid (SUA) has been associated to incident hypertension 
and increased risk of cardiovascular diseases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Among the 2191 subjects enrolled during the last
population survey of the Brisighella Heart Study, we identified 146 new cases of 
arterial hypertension and 394 treated but uncontrolled hypertensive patients with
different levels of SUA. Their hemodynamic characteristics have been compared
with those of age- and sex-matched normotensive (N. 324) and controlled
hypertensive (N. 470) subjects. Then, by logistic regression analysis, we
evaluated which factors were associated with a worse BP control under
pharmacological treatment.
RESULTS: SUA levels were significantly higher in untreated hypertensive and
uncontrolled hypertensive patients when compared to normotensives and controlled 
hypertensive patients. Pulse wave velocity (PWV) was significantly higher
(p<0.001) in undiagnosed and uncontrolled hypertensive patients, while controlled
hypertensive patients had PWV values comparable to normotensive controls. A
similar trend has been observed for the augmentation index (AI). A worse BP
control was associated with SUA levels (OR 1277, 95% CI 1134-1600 per mg/dL), AI 
(OR 1066, 95%CI 1041-1092 per unit), and PWV (OR 1201, 95% CI 1089-1423, per
m/s), but not with age, body mass index, nor estimated glomerular filtration
rate.
CONCLUSION: Based on our data, SUA seems to be associated with an inadequate BP
control in subjects treated with antihypertensive drugs, and subjects with both
uncontrolled BP and relatively high SUA levels have also an increased arterial
stiffness that (per se) could be a cause of worse BP control under treatment.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2016.07.026 
PMID: 27498274  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


77. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. 2016 Sep 1;311(3):H815-21. doi:
10.1152/ajpheart.00948.2015. Epub 2016 Aug 5.

CXCL16 regulates renal injury and fibrosis in experimental renal artery stenosis.

Ma Z(1), Jin X(2), He L(3), Wang Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)Selzman Institute for Kidney Health and Section of Nephrology, Department of
Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas; Section of Nephrology,
Department of Medicine, Shuguang Hospital, Shanghai, China; and. (2)Selzman
Institute for Kidney Health and Section of Nephrology, Department of Medicine,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas; (3)Section of Nephrology, Department 
of Medicine, Shuguang Hospital, Shanghai, China; and. (4)Selzman Institute for
Kidney Health and Section of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Baylor College
of Medicine, Houston, Texas; Center for Translational Research on Inflammatory
Diseases and Renal Section, Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center,
Houston, Texas yanlinw@bcm.edu.

Recent studies have shown that inflammation plays a critical role in the
initiation and progression of hypertensive kidney disease, including renal artery
stenosis. However, the signaling mechanisms underlying the induction of
inflammation are poorly understood. We found that CXCL16 was induced in the
kidney in a murine model of renal artery stenosis. To determine whether CXCL16 is
involved in renal injury and fibrosis, wild-type and CXCL16 knockout mice were
subjected to renal artery stenosis induced by placing a cuff on the left renal
artery. Wild-type and CXCL16 knockout mice had comparable blood pressure at
baseline. Renal artery stenosis caused an increase in blood pressure that was
similar between wild-type and CXCL16 knockout mice. CXCL16 knockout mice were
protected from RAS-induced renal injury and fibrosis. CXCL16 deficiency
suppressed bone marrow-derived fibroblast accumulation and myofibroblast
formation in the stenotic kidneys, which was associated with less expression of
extracellular matrix proteins. Furthermore, CXCL16 deficiency inhibited
infiltration of F4/80(+) macrophages and CD3(+) T cells in the stenotic kidneys
compared with those of wild-type mice. Taken together, our results indicate that 
CXCL16 plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of renal artery stenosis-induced 
renal injury and fibrosis through regulation of bone marrow-derived fibroblast
accumulation and macrophage and T-cell infiltration.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.00948.2015 
PMCID: PMC5142186 [Available on 2017-09-01]
PMID: 27496882  [PubMed - in process]


78. Transplant Proc. 2016 Jun;48(5):1751-5. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2016.02.059.

High-performance Liquid Chromatography Measured Metabolites of Endogenous
Catecholamines and Their Relations to Chronic Kidney Disease and High Blood
Pressure in Heart Transplant Recipients.

Wasilewski G(1), Przybylowski P(2), Wilusz M(3), Sztefko K(3), Janik Ł(4),
Koc-Żórawska E(5), Malyszko J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery and Transplantology, Jagiellonian
University, Medical College, John Paul II Hospital, Cracow, Poland. Electronic
address: grzegorz.wa@interia.pl. (2)First Chair of General Surgery, Jagiellonian 
University, Medical College, Krakow, Poland. Silesian Center for Heart Diseases, 
Zabrze, Poland. (3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Medical College,
University Children's Hospital of Cracow, Jagiellonian University, Cracow,
Poland. (4)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery and Transplantology, Jagiellonian
University, Medical College, John Paul II Hospital, Cracow, Poland. (5)Second
Department of Nephrology, Medical University of Bialystok, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Patients after solid organ transplantation, especially heart and
kidneys, are prone to be hypertensive. Recently chronic kidney disease and
renalase metabolism of endogenous catecholamines are thought to make major
contribution to the pathogenesis of hypertension.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We analyzed 75 heart recipients (80% male, 20% female),
medium age 54.9 years (range, 25-75) at 0.5 to 22 years after heart
transplantation (median, 10.74). Diagnosis of hypertension was made on the basis 
of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Complete blood count, urea, creatinine, 
estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), renalase in serum, and levels of
metanefrine, normetanefrine, and 3-metoxytyramine in 24-hour urine collection
calculated with a high-performance liquid chromatography were recorded.
RESULTS: Urine endogenous catecholamine metabolites were estimated according to
creatinine clearance. Normetanefrine was correlated with age (r = 0.27; P < .05),
urea (r = 0.64; P < .01), creatinine (r = 0.6; P < .01), eGFR (r = -0.51; P <
.01), renalase (r = 0.5; P < .01), and diastolic blood pressure (r = 0.26; P <
.05). Metanefrine was correlated with urea (r = 0.43; P < .01), creatinine (0.32;
P < .01), eGFR (r = -0.4; P < .01), renalase (r = 0.34; P < .05), height
(r = -0.26; P < .05), weight (r = -0.23; P < .05), and time after heart
transplantation (r = 0.27; P < .05). 3-Metoxytyramine was correlated with urea
(r = 0.43; P < .01), creatinine (r = 0.32; P < .01), and the eGFR (r = -0.24;
P < .05). Creatinine was correlated with age (r = 0.36; P < .01), diastolic blood
pressure (r = 0.26; P < .05), time after heart transplantation (r = 0.24; P <
.05), and renalase (r = 0.69; P < .01). Systolic blood pressure was correlated
with proteinuria (r = 0.26; P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic kidney disease and concomitant hypertension are the most
prevalent comorbidities in the population of heart transplant recipients. Urine
catecholamine metabolites were related to kidney function but not to blood
pressure level in the studied population.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2016.02.059 
PMID: 27496485  [PubMed - in process]


79. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2016 Nov;55(11):1978-1986. Epub 2016 Aug 1.

The relevance of performing exercise test before starting supervised physical
exercise in asymptomatic cardiovascular patients with rheumatic diseases.

Klemz BN(1), Reis-Neto ET(1), Jennings F(1), Siqueira US(1), Klemz FK(2),
Pinheiro HH(3), Sato EI(1), Natour J(1), Szejnfeld VL(1), Pinheiro MM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Rheumatology Division, Federal University of Sao Paulo (UNIFESP/EPM).
(2)Cardiology Department, Dante Pazzanese Hospital, Sao Paulo. (3)School of
Dentistry, Federal University of Para (UFPA), Para, Brazil. (4)Rheumatology
Division, Federal University of Sao Paulo (UNIFESP/EPM) mpinheiro@uol.com.br.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the impact and risk factors associated with an abnormal
exercise test (ET) in systemic inflammatory rheumatic disease (SIRD) patients
before commencing supervised physical exercise.
METHODS: A total of 235 SIRD patients were enrolled in three controlled clinical 
trials, including 103 RA, 42 SLE and 57 AS patients. The control group consisted 
of 231 healthy, sedentary subjects matched for age, gender and BMI. All performed
an ET, according to Bruce's or Ellestad's protocol. Cardiovascular disease risk
factors, medications, comorbidities and details of each SIRD were assessed.
RESULTS: SIRD patients had a higher percentage of abnormal ETs compared with the 
control group, especially exercise hypertensive behaviour, higher oxygen
consumption, higher resting heart rate and heart rate at the first minute of
recovery, and chronotropic incompetence (C-Inc) (P < 0.001). The disease itself
was involved with higher likelihood of having an abnormal ET [Odds ratio
(OR) = 12.0, 95% CI: 2.5, 56.7; P = 0.002 for SLE; OR = 13.56, 95% CI: 6.16,
29.8; P < 0.001 for RA; and OR = 4.31, 95% CI: 1.17, 15.8; P = 0.028, for AS].
Each 10-year increment of age increased the chance of having an abnormal ET by
13% (P = 0.008) in AS patients, as well as hypertension (OR = 7.14, 95% CI: 1.61,
31.6; P = 0.01). Regarding C-Inc, age played a protective role (OR = 0.88, 95%
CI: 0.78, 0.99; P = 0.043) in SLE, and ASDAS-ESR was associated with a higher
risk in AS (OR = 2.73, 95% CI: 0.93, 8.0; P = 0.067).
CONCLUSION: Our results showed a higher prevalence of abnormal ETs in
asymptomatic cardiovascular SIRD patients, and the disease itself was associated 
with a higher likelihood of having an abnormal test, emphasizing the relevance
and need of performing it before starting supervised physical exercise.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Rheumatology. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kew277 
PMID: 27481271  [PubMed - in process]


80. Crit Pathw Cardiol. 2016 Sep;15(3):126-30. doi: 10.1097/HPC.0000000000000086.

Gender Discrepancy in Diabetic Patients Hospitalized With Heart Failure: Does Age
Matter?

Mohammed S(1), El-Menyar A, Rafie IM, AlBinAli HA, Singh R, Al Suwaidi J.

Author information: 
(1)From the *Department of Cardiology, Clinical Pharmacology, Heart Hospital,
Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC), Doha, Qatar; †Department of Clinical Medicine,
Weill Cornell Medical School, Qatar; ‡Department of Clinical Research, Trauma
Section, HMC, Qatar; §Department of Internal Medicine, Cardiology Section, Ahmed 
Maher Teaching Hospital, Egypt; ¶Department of Cardiology and Cardiovascular
Surgery, and ‖Department of Cardiovascular Research, Heart Hospital, HMC, Qatar.

BACKGROUND: Gender discrepancy in the cardiovascular diseases has been evaluated 
in several studies. We studied the impact of gender disparity on the presentation
and outcome of diabetic heart failure (DHF) patients.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted including all DHF patients
admitted to the Heart Hospital between 1991 and 2013. Patients' demographics,
presentation, management, and hospital outcomes were analyzed and compared based 
on gender and age.
RESULTS: Out of 8266 HF patients, 4684 (56.7%) were diabetic, of whom 1817 (39%) 
were females. Mean age was comparable in both genders. DHF female patients were
more likely to be hypertensive (79% vs. 65%, P = 0.001) and obese (13% vs. 4.6%, 
P = 0.001). DHF females were less likely to receive beta-blockers and
angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors/angiotensinogen-receptor blockers (25%
vs. 30%, P = 0.001, 54% vs. 57%, P = 0.01, respectively), but were more likely to
be on insulin therapy (21% vs. 16%, P = 0.001). In-hospital atrial fibrillation
(P =0.90), ventricular tachycardia (P = 0.07), stroke (P = 0.45), and cardiac
arrest (P = 0.26) were comparable. Overall in-hospital mortality was comparable
in both genders (P = 0.83). In age ≤50 years, male gender was associated with a
3-fold increase in death (13% vs. 4%, P = 0.01), however, this mortality
difference disappeared in DHF patients aged >50 years (P = 0.62).
CONCLUSIONS: In DHF, female gender is characterized by having a high prevalence
of metabolic syndrome components. Also, females are more likely to have better
Left ventricular ejection fraction but less likely to receive cardiovascular
evidence based medications. There is no significant difference in the overall
hospital mortality between both genders, however, in the younger age; males have 
a significantly higher mortality.

DOI: 10.1097/HPC.0000000000000086 
PMID: 27465010  [PubMed - in process]


81. J Am Heart Assoc. 2016 Jul 21;5(7). pii: e003888. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.116.003888.

Endothelin-1 Drives Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition in Hypertensive
Nephroangiosclerosis.

Seccia TM(1), Caroccia B(1), Gioco F(1), Piazza M(1), Buccella V(1), Guidolin
D(2), Guerzoni E(1), Montini B(3), Petrelli L(2), Pagnin E(4), Ravarotto V(4),
Belloni AS(2), Calò LA(4), Rossi GP(5).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine-DIMED, University of Padua, Italy.
(2)Human Anatomy, Department of Molecular Medicine, University of Padua, Italy.
(3)Immunology, Department of Medicine-DIMED, University of Padua, Italy.
(4)Nephrology Divisions, Department of Medicine-DIMED, University of Padua,
Italy. (5)Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine-DIMED, University of Padua,
Italy gianpaolo.rossi@unipd.it.

BACKGROUND: Tubulointerstitial fibrosis, the final outcome of most kidney
diseases, involves activation of epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT).
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) activates EMT in cancer cells, but it is not known whether it
drives EMT in the kidney. We therefore tested the hypothesis that
tubulointerstitial fibrosis involves EMT driven by ET-1.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Transgenic TG[mRen2]27 (TGRen2) rats developing fulminant
angiotensin II-dependent hypertension with prominent cardiovascular and renal
damage were submitted to drug treatments targeted to ET-1 and/or angiotensin II
receptor or left untreated (controls). Expressional changes of E-cadherin and
α-smooth muscle actin (αSMA) were examined as markers of renal EMT. In human
kidney HK-2 proximal tubular cells expressing the ETB receptor subtype, the
effects of ET-1 with or without ET-1 antagonists were also investigated. The
occurrence of renal fibrosis was associated with EMT in control TGRen2 rats, as
evidenced by decreased E-cadherin and increased αSMA expression. Irbesartan and
the mixed ET-1 receptor antagonist bosentan prevented these changes in a blood
pressure-independent fashion (P < 0.001 for both versus controls). In HK-2 cells 
ET-1 blunted E-cadherin expression, increased αSMA expression (both P < 0.01),
collagen synthesis, and metalloproteinase activity (P < 0.005, all versus
untreated cells). All changes were prevented by the selective ETB receptor
antagonist BQ-788. Evidence for involvement of the Rho-kinase signaling pathway
and dephosphorylation of Yes-associated protein in EMT was also found.
CONCLUSIONS: In angiotensin II-dependent hypertension, ET-1 acting via ETB
receptors and the Rho-kinase and Yes-associated protein induces EMT and thereby
renal fibrosis.

© 2016 The Authors. Published on behalf of the American Heart Association, Inc., 
by Wiley Blackwell.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.116.003888 
PMCID: PMC5015413
PMID: 27444511  [PubMed - in process]


82. Clin Infect Dis. 2016 Oct 15;63(8):1122-9. doi: 10.1093/cid/ciw470. Epub 2016 Jul
20.

Trends in Cardiovascular Disease Mortality Among Persons With HIV in New York
City, 2001-2012.

Hanna DB(1), Ramaswamy C(2), Kaplan RC(1), Kizer JR(3), Anastos K(3), Daskalakis 
D(2), Zimmerman R(4), Braunstein SL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health. (2)Department of Bureau of
HIV Prevention and Control. (3)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health
Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx. (4)Department
of Office of Vital Statistics, New York City Department of Health and Mental
Hygiene, Long Island City, New York.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) has become more prominent among human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals. The extent to which CVD
mortality rates are changing is unclear.
METHODS: We analyzed surveillance data for all persons aged ≥13 years with HIV
infection between 2001 and 2012 reported to the New York City HIV Surveillance
Registry. We examined age-specific and age-standardized mortality rates due to
major CVDs. We compared mortality time trends among persons with HIV with the
general population, and examined differences among HIV-infected persons by RNA
level.
RESULTS: There were 29 588 deaths reported among 145 845 HIV-infected persons.
Ten percent of deaths were attributed to CVD as the underlying cause, including
chronic ischemic heart disease (42% of CVD deaths), hypertensive diseases (27%), 
and cerebrovascular diseases (10%). While proportionate mortality due to CVD
among persons with HIV increased (6% in 2001 to 15% in 2012, P < .001), the CVD
mortality rate decreased from 5.1 to 2.7 per 1000 person-years. After controlling
for sex, race/ethnicity, borough of residence, and year, those with HIV had
significantly higher CVD mortality than the general population in all age groups 
through age 65. The CVD mortality rate was highest among viremic persons
(adjusted rate ratio [RR], 3.53 [95% confidence interval {CI}, 3.21-3.87]) but
still elevated among virally suppressed (<400 copies/mL) persons (adjusted RR,
1.53 [95% CI, 1.41-1.66]) compared with the general population.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support continued emphasis by HIV care providers on
both viremic control and preventive measures including smoking cessation, blood
pressure control, and lipid management.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press for the Infectious
Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, e-mail
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/ciw470 
PMID: 27444412  [PubMed - in process]


83. Amyotroph Lateral Scler Frontotemporal Degener. 2016 Oct - Nov;17(7-8):548-554.
Epub 2016 Jul 20.

Cardiovascular disease and diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: A
population based study.

Kioumourtzoglou MA(1), Seals RM(2), Gredal O(3), Mittleman MA(2), Hansen J(4),
Weisskopf MG(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Departments of Environmental Health. (2)b Epidemiology , Harvard T.H. Chan
School of Public Health , Boston , Massachusetts , USA. (3)c National
Rehabilitation Center for Neuromuscular Disorders , Copenhagen , and. (4)d Danish
Cancer Society Research Center , Copenhagen , Denmark.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rapidly fatal neurodegenerative disease 
of unknown etiology. We investigated the association between ALS diagnosis and
prior cardiovascular disease (CVD), and CVD-specific, hospital admissions in the 
Danish population. We conducted a population based nested case-control study,
including 3182 Danish residents diagnosed with ALS at age ≥20 years (1982-2009)
and 100 randomly selected controls for each case, matched on age, gender and
vital status. We estimated odds ratios (OR) associated with CVD, and CVD-specific
hospital admissions, adjusting for socioeconomic and marital status, region of
residence and past diabetes and obesity diagnoses. The estimated adjusted OR for 
any CVD admission at least three years prior to the date of ALS diagnosis was
1.15 (95% CI 1.04-1.27). Our results varied across cause-specific admissions; for
atherosclerosis the OR was 1.36 (95% CI 1.02-1.80) and for ischemic heart disease
1.14 (95% CI 0.99-1.31), while we observed no association with hypertensive and
cerebrovascular diseases. Adjusting for or stratifying by COPD status, a
cigarette-smoking correlate, did not change our results. In conclusion, in our
population based study we found evidence for a moderately elevated association
with CVD that was stronger for specific conditions, such as atherosclerosis. Our 
findings may have important implications for ALS pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1080/21678421.2016.1208247 
PMCID: PMC5178102 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27436717  [PubMed - in process]


84. Mol Med Rep. 2016 Sep;14(3):2328-42. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5495. Epub 2016 Jul
11.

miRNA polymorphisms (miR‑146a, miR‑149, miR‑196a2 and miR‑499) are associated
with the risk of coronary artery disease.

Sung JH(1), Kim SH(1), Yang WI(1), Kim WJ(1), Moon JY(1), Kim IJ(1), Cha DH(1),
Cho SY(1), Kim JO(2), Kim KA(2), Kim OJ(3), Lim SW(1), Kim NK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University,
Seongnam, Gyeonggi 463‑712, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Biomedical
Science, College of Life Science, CHA University, Seongnam, Gyeonggi 463‑400,
Republic of Korea. (3)Department of Neurology, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA
University, Seongnam, Gyeonggi 463‑712, Republic of Korea.

Small non‑coding microRNAs (miRNAs) are not only important for heart and vascular
development but are also important in cardiovascular pathophysiology and
diseases, such as ischemia and atherosclerosis‑related diseases. However, the
effect of miR‑146a, miR‑149, miR‑196a2 and miR‑499 polymorphisms on coronary
artery disease (CAD) susceptibility remain unknown. The aim of the present study 
was to examine the genotype frequencies of miR‑146a, miR‑149, miR‑196a2 and
miR‑499 polymorphisms in patients with CAD, and assess their clinical
applications for diagnosing and monitoring CAD. Using polymerase chain
reaction‑amplified DNA, microRNA polymorphisms were analyzed in 522 patients with
CAD and 535 control subjects. The miR‑149 rs2292832 C>T and miR‑196a2 rs11614913 
T>C polymorphisms were shown to be significantly associated with CAD prevalence. 
In subgroup analyses according to disease severity, the miR‑146a rs2910164GG
genotype was significantly associated with CAD risk in the stent ≥2 group. In
addition, miR‑146aG/‑149T/‑196a2C/‑499 G allele combination was significantly
associated with CAD prevalence (G‑T‑C‑G and G‑C‑C‑G of
miR‑146a/‑149/‑196a2/‑499). The combination genotypes of miR‑146aGG/149TC+CC and 
miR‑149CC/196a2TC were significantly associated with CAD incidence. In subgroup
analyses, miR‑146a rs2910164 C>G increased the risk of developing CAD in
non‑smoking, hypertensive and nondiabetic subgroups. Furthermore, miR‑149
rs2292832 C>T and miR‑196a2 rs11614913 T>C was shown to increase CAD risk in
females and patients aged >63 years old. The miR‑149T allele, miR‑196a2C allele
and miR‑146aG/‑149T/‑196a2C/‑499 G allele combination were associated with CAD
pathogenesis. The combined effects of environmental factor and genotype
combination of miRNA polymorphisms may contribute to CAD prevalence.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5495 
PMID: 27430349  [PubMed - in process]


85. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2016 Oct;43(10):883-95. doi: 10.1111/1440-1681.12619.

Sex-linked differences in the course of chronic kidney disease and congestive
heart failure: a study in 5/6 nephrectomized Ren-2 transgenic hypertensive rats
with volume overload induced using aorto-caval fistula.

Červenka L(1,)(2), Škaroupková P(1), Kompanowska-Jezierska E(3), Sadowski J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Experimental Medicine, Institute for Clinical and Experimental
Medicine, Prague, Czech Republic. (2)Department of Pathophysiology, 2nd Faculty
of Medicine, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic. (3)Department of Renal
and Body Fluid Physiology, Mossakowski Medical Research Centre, Polish Academy of
Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.

The role of hypertension and the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in sex-related
differences in the course of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and congestive heart
failure (CHF) remain unclear, especially when the two diseases are combined. In
male and female Ren-2 transgenic rats (TGR), a model of hypertension with
activation of endogenous RAS, CKD was induced by 5/6 renal mass reduction (5/6
NX) and CHF was elicited by volume overload achieved by creation of an
aorto-caval fistula (ACF). The primary aim of the study was to examine long-term 
CKD- and CHF-related mortality, especially in animals with CKD and CHF combined, 
with particular interest in the potential sex-related differences. The follow-up 
period was 23 weeks after the first intervention (5/6 NX). We found, first, that 
TGR did not exhibit sexual dimorphism in the course of 5/6 NX-induced CKD.
Second, in contrast, TGR exhibited important sex-related differences in the
course of ACF-induced CHF-related mortality: intact female TGR showed higher
survival rate than male TGR. This situation is reversed in the course of combined
5/6 NX-induced CKD and ACF-induced CHF-related mortality: intact female TGR
exhibited poorer survival than male TGR. Third, the survival rate in animals with
combined 5/6 NX-induced CKD and ACF-induced CHF was significantly worsened as
compared with rat groups that were exposed to 'single organ disease'.
Collectively, our present results clearly show that CKD aggravates long-term
mortality of animals with CHF. In addition, TGR exhibit remarkable sexual
dimorphism with respect to CKD- and CHF-related mortality, especially in animals 
with combined CKD and CHF.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1440-1681.12619 
PMID: 27385471  [PubMed - in process]


86. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2016 Oct;23(19):19432-9. doi:
10.1007/s11356-016-7144-9. Epub 2016 Jul 5.

Susceptibility to ambient particulate matter on emergency care utilization for
ischemic heart disease in Seoul, Korea.

Sohn J(1), You SC(2), Cho J(3), Choi YJ(4), Joung B(5), Kim C(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 50
Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 120-752, Republic of Korea. (2)Division of
Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Yonsei University College of
Medicine, 50 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 120-752, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Gachon University Gil
Medical Center, 1198 Guwol-dong, Namdong-gu, Incheon, 405-760, Republic of Korea.
(4)Health Insurance Review & Assessment Service, 267 Hyoyeong-ro, Seocho-gu,
Seoul, 137-706, Republic of Korea. (5)Division of Cardiology, Department of
Internal Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 50 Yonsei-ro,
Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 120-752, Republic of Korea. cby6908@yuhs.ac. (6)Department
of Preventive Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 50 Yonsei-ro,
Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 120-752, Republic of Korea. preman@yuhs.ac.

Many epidemiological studies have reported associations between ambient
particulate matter (PM) and cardiovascular diseases. However, the effects
associated with PM that promote cardiovascular events among susceptible
populations who may respond differently than the general population to the same
ambient air pollutants remain unclear. We conducted a time-series study with
generalized additive models to assess the association between ambient PM10 and
emergency department (ED) visits for ischemic heart disease (IHD) in Seoul,
Republic of Korea from 2005 to 2009. The ED data and previous medical records
within the 5 years of each IHD event to examine the effect of PM10 in a
susceptible population were obtained from Health Insurance Review and Assessment 
Service. Overall, the adjusted relative risks (RRs) of ED visits for IHD were not
statistically significant for PM10, but significant positive RRs were found for
groups with hypertension (1.018; 95 % confidence interval [CI] 1.002-1.035) and
those who are ≥80 years of age (1.019; 1.002-1.037) for same-day exposure and
with diabetes (1.019; 1.002-1.037) for single-lag models. Subgroup analyses
revealed gender differences in ED visits for IHD in hypertensive patients and
those who are ≥80 years of age; positive correlations were found only in males
with the lag models. Our study suggests that ambient PM10 is significantly
associated with ED visits for IHD, especially in males with hypertension,
diabetes mellitus, or who are aged ≥80 years. Identification of populations
susceptible to air pollution is of paramount importance to establishing
recommendations or guidelines for high-risk individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-016-7144-9 
PMID: 27380182  [PubMed - in process]


87. Mayo Clin Proc. 2016 Jul;91(7):849-57. doi: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2016.04.025.

Cardiorespiratory Fitness and Risk of Sudden Cardiac Death in Men and Women in
the United States: A Prospective Evaluation From the Aerobics Center Longitudinal
Study.

Jiménez-Pavón D(1), Artero EG(2), Lee DC(3), España-Romero V(4), Sui X(5), Pate
RR(5), Church TS(6), Moreno LA(7), Lavie CJ(8), Blair SN(9).

Author information: 
(1)GALENO Research Group, Department of Physical Education, University of Cádiz, 
Puerto Real, Cádiz, Spain; Department of Exercise Science, University of South
Carolina, Columbia; GENUD (Growth, Exercise, Nutrition and Development) Research 
Group, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain.
Electronic address: david.jimenez@uca.es. (2)Department of Exercise Science,
University of South Carolina, Columbia; Department of Education, University of
Almería, Almería, Spain. (3)Department of Kinesiology, Iowa State University,
Ames. (4)GALENO Research Group, Department of Physical Education, University of
Cádiz, Puerto Real, Cádiz, Spain; Medical Research Council Epidemiology Unit,
Institute of Metabolic Science, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, United
Kingdom. (5)Department of Exercise Science, University of South Carolina,
Columbia. (6)Preventive Medicine Laboratory, Pennington Biomedical Research
Center, Baton Rouge, LA. (7)GENUD (Growth, Exercise, Nutrition and Development)
Research Group, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza,
Spain. (8)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, John Ochsner Heart and Vascular 
Institute, Ochsner Clinical School-The University of Queensland's School of
Medicine, New Orleans, LA. (9)Department of Exercise Science, University of South
Carolina, Columbia; Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of
South Carolina, Columbia.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the relation between cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and
sudden cardiac death (SCD) in a large US adult population and to study the
effects of hypertension, obesity, and health status on the relation of CRF with
SCD.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 55,456 individuals (mean age, 44.2 years; 13,507
women) from the Aerobics Center Longitudinal Study, a prospective observational
investigation (from January 2, 1974, through December 31, 2002), were included.
Cardiorespiratory fitness was assessed by a maximal treadmill test, and baseline 
assessment included an extensive set of measurements.
RESULTS: There were 109 SCDs. An inverse risk of SCD was found across incremental
CRF levels after adjusting for potential confounders. Participants with moderate 
and high CRF levels had 44% (hazard ratio, 0.56; 95% CI, 0.35-0.90) and 48%
(hazard ratio, 0.52; 95% CI, 0.30-0.92) significantly lower risk of SCD,
respectively, than did those with low CRF levels (P<.001). The risk of SCD
decreased by 14% (hazard ratio, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.77-0.96) per 1-metabolic
equivalent increase in the fully adjusted model. Hypertensive, overweight, or
unhealthy individuals with moderate to high CRF levels had lower risks of SCD
(ranging from 58% to 72% of lower risk) than did those with the same medical
conditions and low CRF levels.
CONCLUSION: The risk of SCD in US men and women could be partially reduced by
ensuring moderate to high levels of CRF independently of other risk factors and
especially in those who are hypertensive, overweight, or unhealthy.

Copyright © 2016 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2016.04.025 
PMID: 27378037  [PubMed - in process]


88. J Med Chem. 2016 Oct 27;59(20):9277-9294. Epub 2016 Jul 8.

G-Protein-Coupled Receptor Kinase 2 (GRK2) Inhibitors: Current Trends and Future 
Perspectives.

Guccione M(1), Ettari R(1), Taliani S(2), Da Settimo F(2), Zappalà M(1), Grasso
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Chimiche, Biologiche, Farmaceutiche ed Ambientali,
Università degli Studi di Messina , Viale Annunziata, 98168 Messina, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Farmacia, Università di Pisa , Via Bonanno Pisano 6, 56126
Pisa, Italy.

G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 (GRK2) is a G-protein-coupled receptor kinase
that is ubiquitously expressed in many tissues and regulates various
intracellular mechanisms. The up- or down-regulation of GRK2 correlates with
several pathological disorders. GRK2 plays an important role in the maintenance
of heart structure and function; thus, this kinase is involved in many
cardiovascular diseases. GRK2 up-regulation can worsen cardiac ischemia;
furthermore, increased kinase levels occur during the early stages of heart
failure and in hypertensive subjects. GRK2 up-regulation can lead to changes in
the insulin signaling cascade, which can translate to insulin resistance.
Increased GRK2 levels also correlate with the degree of cognitive impairment that
is typically observed in Alzheimer's disease. This article reviews the most
potent and selective GRK2 inhibitors that have been developed. We focus on their 
mechanism of action, inhibition profile, and structure-activity relationships to 
provide insight into the further development of GRK2 inhibitors as drug
candidates.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.5b01939 
PMID: 27362616  [PubMed - in process]


89. Prostaglandins Other Lipid Mediat. 2016 Sep;125:65-79. doi:
10.1016/j.prostaglandins.2016.06.002. Epub 2016 Jun 21.

EETs and HO-1 cross-talk.

Sacerdoti D(1), Pesce P(2), Di Pascoli M(1), Bolognesi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Padova, Padova, Italy. (2)Department of 
Medicine, University of Padova, Padova, Italy. Electronic address:
paola.pesce82@libero.it.

Epoxygenase-dependent metabolites of arachidonc acid, EETs and the heme-oxygenase
(HO)-1/carbon monoxide/bilverdin system share similarities in their activity and 
mediators. They control endothelial function, dilating small arterial vessels,
decrease blood pressure, protect the heart from ischemic and hypertensive
cardiopathy, control renal circulation and function, promote angiogenesis and
organ regeneration, oppose oxidative stress and inflammation, improve diabetes
and obesity, have protective effects on the liver, and participate in portal
hypertension. Furthermore, EETs induce HO-1, and inhibition of HO-1 abolishes
most of the effects of EETs. Thus, a close interaction between the two systems
exists, and is relevant in view of their therapeutic potential.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prostaglandins.2016.06.002 
PMID: 27354356  [PubMed - in process]


90. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Jun 23;17(7). pii: E797. doi: 10.3390/ijms17070797.

Role of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System beyond Blood Pressure
Regulation: Molecular and Cellular Mechanisms Involved in End-Organ Damage during
Arterial Hypertension.

Muñoz-Durango N(1), Fuentes CA(2), Castillo AE(3), González-Gómez LM(4),
Vecchiola A(5), Fardella CE(6), Kalergis AM(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Millenium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Departamento de
Gen&#233;tica Molecular y Microbiolog&#237;a, Facultad de Ciencias
Biol&#243;gicas, Pontificia Universidad Cat&#243;lica de Chile, 8330025 Santiago,
Chile. nmunoz4@uc.cl. (2)Millenium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy,
Departamento de Endocrinolog&#237;a, Escuela de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad 
Cat&#243;lica de Chile, 8330074 Santiago, Chile. cristobal.fuentes.z@gmail.com.
(3)Millenium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Departamento de
Endocrinolog&#237;a, Escuela de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad Cat&#243;lica de
Chile, 8330074 Santiago, Chile. acastilloram@gmail.com. (4)Millenium Institute on
Immunology and Immunotherapy, Departamento de Endocrinolog&#237;a, Escuela de
Medicina, Pontificia Universidad Cat&#243;lica de Chile, 8330074 Santiago, Chile.
luismartin.gonzalezgomez@gmail.com. (5)Millenium Institute on Immunology and
Immunotherapy, Departamento de Endocrinolog&#237;a, Escuela de Medicina,
Pontificia Universidad Cat&#243;lica de Chile, 8330074 Santiago, Chile.
andreavecchiola@gmail.com. (6)Millenium Institute on Immunology and
Immunotherapy, Departamento de Endocrinolog&#237;a, Escuela de Medicina,
Pontificia Universidad Cat&#243;lica de Chile, 8330074 Santiago, Chile.
cfardella@med.puc.cl. (7)Millenium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy,
Departamento de Gen&#233;tica Molecular y Microbiolog&#237;a, Facultad de
Ciencias Biol&#243;gicas, Pontificia Universidad Cat&#243;lica de Chile, 8330025 
Santiago, Chile. akalergis@bio.puc.cl. (8)Millenium Institute on Immunology and
Immunotherapy, Departamento de Endocrinolog&#237;a, Escuela de Medicina,
Pontificia Universidad Cat&#243;lica de Chile, 8330074 Santiago, Chile.
akalergis@bio.puc.cl.

Arterial hypertension is a common condition worldwide and an important predictor 
of several complicated diseases. Arterial hypertension can be triggered by many
factors, including physiological, genetic, and lifestyle causes. Specifically,
molecules of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system not only play important
roles in the control of blood pressure, but they are also associated with the
genesis of arterial hypertension, thus constituting a need for pharmacological
interventions. Chronic high pressure generates mechanical damage along the
vascular system, heart, and kidneys, which are the principal organs affected in
this condition. In addition to mechanical stress, hypertension-induced oxidative 
stress, chronic inflammation, and the activation of reparative mechanisms lead to
end-organ damage, mainly due to fibrosis. Clinical trials have demonstrated that 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system intervention in hypertensive patients lowers
morbidity/mortality and inflammatory marker levels as compared to placebo
patients, evidencing that this system controls more than blood pressure. This
review emphasizes the detrimental effects that a renin-angiotensin-aldosterone
system (RAAS) imbalance has on health considerations above and beyond high blood 
pressure, such as fibrotic end-organ damage.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17070797 
PMCID: PMC4964362
PMID: 27347925  [PubMed - in process]


91. Eur J Nutr. 2016 Jun 25. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of foxtail millet protein hydrolysates on lowering blood pressure in
spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Chen J(1,)(2,)(3), Duan W(1,)(2), Ren X(1,)(2), Wang C(1,)(2), Pan Z(3,)(4), Diao
X(5), Shen Q(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural
University, 17 Tsinghua East Road, Beijing, 100083, China. (2)National
Engineering Research Center for Fruits and Vegetables Processing, 17 Tsinghua
East Road, Beijing, 100083, China. (3)Department of Biological and Agricultural
Engineering, University of California, Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA,
95616, USA. (4)Processed Foods Research Unit, Agricultural Research Service, US
Department of Agriculture, 800 Buchanan St., Albany, CA, 94710, USA. (5)Institute
of Crop Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS), 12 Zhongguancun
South St., Haidian District, Beijing, 100081, China. (6)College of Food Science
and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, 17 Tsinghua East
Road, Beijing, 100083, China. shenqun@cau.edu.cn. (7)National Engineering
Research Center for Fruits and Vegetables Processing, 17 Tsinghua East Road,
Beijing, 100083, China. shenqun@cau.edu.cn.

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to determine the effect of foxtail
millet protein hydrolysates on lowering blood pressure in spontaneously
hypertensive rats (SHRs).
METHODS: The protein of foxtail millet after extruding or fermenting and the raw 
foxtail millet was extracted and hydrolyzed by digestive protease to generate
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory peptides. The potential
antihypertensive effect of protein hydrolysates from foxtail millet in SHRs was
investigated.
RESULTS: After 4 weeks of treatment with 200 mg peptides/kg of body weight of
protein hydrolysates, blood pressure was lowered significantly, and the raw and
extruded samples were more effective than the fermented samples. The serum ACE
activity and angiotensin II levels in the treatment groups were significantly
lower than that of the control. The percent heart weight decreased in the
treatment groups.
CONCLUSION: Thus, ingestion of foxtail millet protein hydrolysates especially for
the raw and extruded hydrolysates may ameliorate hypertension and alleviate
related cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00394-016-1252-7 
PMID: 27344669  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


92. Nutrients. 2016 Jun 22;8(6). pii: E384. doi: 10.3390/nu8060384.

Association between Body Mass Index and All-Cause Mortality in Hypertensive
Adults: Results from the China Stroke Primary Prevention Trial (CSPPT).

Yang W(1), Li JP(2), Zhang Y(3), Fan FF(4), Xu XP(5), Wang BY(6), Xu X(7), Qin
XH(8), Xing HX(9), Tang GF(10), Zhou ZY(11), Gu DF(12), Zhao D(13), Huo Y(14).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 100034,
China. ywyy2008@163.com. (2)Department of Cardiology, Peking University First
Hospital, Beijing 100034, China. lijianping@medmail.com.cn. (3)Department of
Cardiology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 100034, China.
drzhy1108@163.com. (4)Department of Cardiology, Peking University First Hospital,
Beijing 100034, China. fang9020@126.com. (5)National Clinical Research Center for
Kidney Disease, State Key Laboratory for Organ Failure Research, Renal Division, 
Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, China.
xipingxu126@126.com. (6)National Clinical Research Center for Kidney Disease,
State Key Laboratory for Organ Failure Research, Renal Division, Nanfang
Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, China.
binyanwang126@126.com. (7)National Clinical Research Center for Kidney Disease,
State Key Laboratory for Organ Failure Research, Renal Division, Nanfang
Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, China. xux007@163.com.
(8)National Clinical Research Center for Kidney Disease, State Key Laboratory for
Organ Failure Research, Renal Division, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical
University, Guangzhou 510515, China. xianhuiqin@126.com. (9)Institute for
Biomedicine, Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230032, China. ausachina@163.com.
(10)Institute for Biomedicine, Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230032, China.
tanggenfu@163.com. (11)Institute for Biomedicine, Anhui Medical University, Hefei
230032, China. zhouziyi19920319@126.com. (12)State Key Laboratory of
Cardiovascular Disease, Fuwai Hospital, National Center for Cardiovascular
Diseases, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College,
Beijing 100037, China. gudongfeng@vip.sina.com. (13)Department of Epidemiology,
Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing Institute of Heart, 
Lung and Blood Vessel Diseases, Beijing 100029, China. deezhao@vip.sina.com.
(14)Department of Cardiology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 100034,
China. huoyong@263.net.cn.

The association between elevated body mass index (BMI) and risk of death has been
reported in many studies. However, the association between BMI and all-cause
mortality for hypertensive Chinese adults remains unclear. We conducted a
post-hoc analysis using data from the China Stroke Primary Prevention Trial
(CSPPT). Cox regression analysis was performed to determine the significance of
the association of BMI with all-cause mortality. During a mean follow-up duration
of 4.5 years, 622 deaths (3.0%) occurred among the 20,694 participants aged 45-75
years. A reversed J-shaped relationship was observed between BMI and all-cause
mortality. The hazard ratios (HRs) for underweight (<18.5 kg/m²), overweight
(24.0-27.9 kg/m²), and obesity (≥28.0 kg/m²) were calculated relative to normal
weight (18.5-23.9 kg/m²). The summary HRs were 1.56 (95% CI, 1.11-2.18) for
underweight, 0.78 (95% CI 0.64-0.95) for overweight and 0.64 (95% CI, 0.48-0.85) 
for obesity. In sex-age-specific analyses, participants over 60 years of age had 
optimal BMI in the obesity classification and the results were consistent in both
males and females. Relative to normal weight, underweight was associated with
significantly higher mortality. Excessive weight was not associated with
increased risk of mortality. Chinese hypertensive adults had the lowest mortality
in grade 1 obesity.

DOI: 10.3390/nu8060384 
PMCID: PMC4924224
PMID: 27338470  [PubMed - in process]


93. Indian Heart J. 2016 May-Jun;68(3):286-94. doi: 10.1016/j.ihj.2015.09.029. Epub
2016 Jan 11.

Prevalence, awareness, and control of hypertension in the slums of Kolkata.

Banerjee S(1), Mukherjee TK(2), Basu S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Consultant Cardiologist, Department of Cardiology, Apollo Gleneagles Hospital,
Kolkata, India. Electronic address: drsuvrob@gmail.com. (2)Advisor, Department of
Health, Ex-Chief Municipal Health Officer, Kolkata Municipal Corporation,
Kolkata, India. (3)Program Chair, Predictive Business Analytics, Bridge School of
Management, NCR, India.

BACKGROUND: Slum dwellers have poor socio-environmental conditions and less
access to medical care, which make them susceptible to illnesses. Studies on
urban slums have primarily focused on communicable diseases and less on lifestyle
diseases, such as hypertension. Consequently, there is a paucity of prevalence
studies of hypertension in slums in different parts of the country. The aim of
the study was to provide estimates of the prevalence, awareness, and control of
hypertension in an adult population sample of the slums of Kolkata.
METHODS: A population-based cross-sectional study was conducted in the slums of
Kolkata in collaboration with Kolkata Municipality Corporation. Door-to-door
survey was conducted by trained healthcare workers using a structured
questionnaire. Age, sex, religion, housing conditions (house/hut), average
monthly household income, education status, current use of tobacco, history of
hypertension, and whether on antihypertensive treatment were recorded. Blood
pressure (BP) was recorded as per standard guidelines. Hypertension was diagnosed
by JNC-VII criteria. A total of 10,175 adults aged ≥20 years were enrolled in the
study.
RESULTS: Overall prevalence of hypertension was 42%. Hypertension was newly
detected in 19% of the population. Fifty-four percent of the hypertensive
subjects were aware of their hypertension status, 38% were on antihypertensive
treatment, and 12% had their BP controlled to target level. Subgroup analysis
showed that the prevalence of hypertension was higher in men, above 60 years age,
in the minority community, in those with a higher household income, and among the
tobacco users.
CONCLUSION: There is a high prevalence of hypertension in the slums of Kolkata.
Although the awareness of the condition is high, the control of hypertension is
poor.

Copyright © 2015 Cardiological Society of India. Published by Elsevier B.V. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ihj.2015.09.029 
PMCID: PMC4912028 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 27316479  [PubMed - in process]


94. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2016 May;17(5):339-42. doi: 10.1714/2252.24256.

[Blood pressure: the lower the better? Maybe no].

[Article in Italian]

Parretti D(1), Parretti L(2), Medolla A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Responsabile Nazionale Area Cardiovascolare, Società Italiana di Medicina
Generale e delle Cure Primarie. (2)Scuola di Specializzazione in Gerontologia e
Geriatria, Università degli Studi, Perugia. (3)Medico di Medicina Generale,
Perugia.

Antihypertensive treatment is aimed at reducing as much as possible health
outcomes in terms of morbidity and mortality. The main international guidelines
and clinical trials showed different positions about blood pressure targets. At
present, there is no common opinion about the benefits of an aggressive drug
treatment; moreover it is not clear whether lower blood pressure values are
related to increased morbidity and mortality. The recent randomized SPRINT trial 
has compared intensive vs standard drug therapy in a non-diabetic hypertensive
population. The trial has shown benefits of intensive treatment in reducing
important health outcomes, though results were not confirmed in several patient
subsets. We examined the studies on hypertensive patients with comorbidities
(i.e., chronic kidney disease, cardiovascular disease) to identify blood pressure
targets recommended in these populations, but no strong evidence was found about 
the benefits of intensive treatment. In geriatric patients the "lower is better" 
paradigm cannot be entirely applied because of comorbidity, polypharmacy and
frailty.

DOI: 10.1714/2252.24256 
PMID: 27310906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


95. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2016 May;17(5):335-8. doi: 10.1714/2252.24254.

[Blood pressure: the lower the better? Maybe yes].

[Article in Italian]

Verdecchia P(1), Angeli F(2), Aita A(1), Bartolini C(1), Garofoli M(1), Reboldi
G(3).

Author information: 
(1)S.C. Medicina, Ospedale di Assisi, Assisi (PG). (2)Dipartimento di
Cardiologia, Ospedale Santa Maria della Misericordia, Perugia. (3)Dipartimento di
Medicina Interna, Università degli Studi, Perugia.

The SPRINT study tested the hypothesis that hypertensive patients randomized to a
more intensive treatment, aimed at lowering systolic blood pressure (BP) below
120 mmHg have a lower incidence of major cardiovascular events when compared to
patients randomized to a less intensive treatment (systolic BP reduction below
140 mmHg). Overall, 9361 patients were randomized to the more intensive (n=4678) 
or less intensive (n=4683) antihypertensive treatment. The study was prematurely 
interrupted because of an excess benefit in the more intensive arm. Indeed, the
group randomized to the more intensive arm showed, when compared to the group
randomized to the less intensive arm, a 25% reduction in the primary endpoint
(1.65 vs 2.19% per year; p<0.001), a 43% reduction in cardiovascular death (0.25 
vs 0.43%; p=0.005), a 27% reduction in all-cause death (1.03% vs 1.40%; p=0.003) 
and a 38% reduction in hospitalizations for heart failure (0.41 vs 0.67%;
p<0.002). Unexpectedly, there was no significant reduction in the risk of stroke 
(not significant 11% reduction). The SPRINT study unequivocally shows that, in
hypertensive patients with systolic BP ≥130 mmHg and no history of diabetes,
previous stroke and polycystic renal disease, we should try to lower systolic BP 
to levels below 120 mmHg with the objective to lower the incidence of heart
failure in addition to all-cause and cardiovascular death. Future guidelines on
the management of patients with hypertension should implement the results of the 
SPRINT study.

DOI: 10.1714/2252.24254 
PMID: 27310905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


96. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2016 Jul;64(7):1448-55. doi: 10.1111/jgs.14229. Epub 2016 Jun
16.

Associations Between Inflammation and Physical Function in African Americans and 
European Americans with Prevalent Cardiovascular Risk Factors.

Windham BG(1), Wilkening SR(2), Lirette ST(3), Kullo IJ(4), Turner ST(5),
Griswold ME(3), Mosley TH Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, University of Mississippi
Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi. (2)School of Medicine, University of
Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi. (3)Center of Biostatistics and 
Bioinformatics, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi.
(4)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(5)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

OBJECTIVES: To examine associations between inflammation and physical function
and potential mediation by white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) in African
Americans (AAs) and European Americans (EAs).
DESIGN: Cross-sectional analysis using linear and logistic models with
generalized estimating equations to account for family clustering, reporting
results as regression coefficients (β) and odds ratios (ORs) adjusted for
education, alcohol, exercise, body mass index, hypertension, diabetes mellitus,
heart disease, cognition, ankle-brachial index, race (site), and supported
interactions.
SETTING: Genetic Epidemiology Network of Arteriopathy-Genetics of
Microangiopathic Brain Injury Study cohort.
PARTICIPANTS: AA and EA sibships with two or more siblings with hypertension
before age 60 (N = 1,960; 65% female, 51% AA, aged 26-91, 50% obese, 72%
hypertensive).
MEASUREMENTS: Inflammation (C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL6),
soluble tumor necrosis factor receptors (sTNFRs) 1 and 2, WMH volume (cm(3) )
according to magnetic resonance imaging), walking speed (cm/s) over 25 feet, and 
mobility difficulty (any self-reported difficulty walking half a mile).
RESULTS: In separate models, inflammatory markers were associated with walking
speed (sTNFR1: β = -2.74, P < .001; sTNFR2: β = -1.23, P = .03; CRP: β = -1.95, P
= .001; IL6: β = -1.24, P = .03) and mobility difficulty (sTNFR1: OR = 1.36, P = 
.001; sTNFR2: OR = 1.25, P = .005; CRP: OR = 1.22, P = .005; IL6: OR = 1.18, P = 
.02); the association between WMH volume and sTNFR1 in AA (β = 0.07, P = .06) did
not reach typical statistical thresholds. WMH volume was associated with walking 
speed in AA (β = -3.17, P = .02) but not with mobility difficulty (OR = 1.10, P =
.54). Adjusting for WMH did not change associations.
CONCLUSION: In young, middle-aged, and older adults with prevalent cardiovascular
risk factors, multiple inflammatory biomarkers were associated with slower
walking speed independent of microvascular disease in the brain. There was little
evidence of mediation by brain WMH volume. Inflammation may contribute to
physical function impairments through pathways other than brain microvascular
disease, particularly in AAs.

© 2016, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2016, The American Geriatrics
Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.14229 
PMCID: PMC5094054 [Available on 2017-07-01]
PMID: 27310030  [PubMed - in process]


97. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2016 Jul;23(4):441-51. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2015.06.016. Epub
2015 Jun 26.

Factors regulating the renal circulation in spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Ahmeda AF(1), Alzoghaibi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, College of Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh,
Saudi Arabia.

Hypertension is one of the leading causes of health morbidity and mortality which
are linked to many life threatening diseases such as stroke heart problems and
renal dysfunction. The integrity of renal microcirculation is crucial to
maintaining the clearance and the excretory function in the normotensive and
hypertensive conditions. Furthermore, any alteration in the renal function is
involved in the pathophysiology of hypertension. The aim of this review is to
provide a brief discussion of some factors that regulate renal haemodynamics in
spontaneously hypertensive rats, an animal model of hypertension, and how these
factors are linked to the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2015.06.016 
PMCID: PMC4890190
PMID: 27298576  [PubMed]


98. Circulation. 2016 Jun 14;133(24):2561-75. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.116.008731.

Endemic Cardiovascular Diseases of the Poorest Billion.

Kwan GF(1), Mayosi BM(2), Mocumbi AO(2), Miranda JJ(2), Ezzati M(2), Jain Y(2),
Robles G(2), Benjamin EJ(2), Subramanian SV(2), Bukhman G(2).

Author information: 
(1)From Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, MA
(G.F.K.); Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, MA (G.F.K., G.B.); Partners In Health, Boston, MA (G.F.K., G.B.);
Department of Medicine, Groote Schuur Hospital and University of Cape Town, South
Africa (B.M.M.); Universidade Eduardo Mondlane and the Instituto Nacional de
Saúde, Maputo, Mozambique (A.O.M.); Department of Medicine, School of Medicine
Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia, Lima, Peru (J.J.M.); CRONICAS Center of
Excellence in Chronic Diseases, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia, Lima, Peru 
(J.J.M.); MRC-PHE Centre for Environment and Health, and Department of
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Imperial College London,
UK (M.E.); Jan Swasthya Sahyog, Village and Post Ganiyari, Bilaspur
(Chhattisgarh), India (Y.J.); Oxford Department of International Development,
University of Oxford, UK (G.R.); Department of Epidemiology, Boston University
School of Public Health, MA (E.J.B.); Department of Social and Behavioral
Sciences, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA (S.V.S.); and
Division of Global Health Equity, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA
(G.B.). genekwan@bu.edu. (2)From Department of Medicine, Boston University School
of Medicine, MA (G.F.K.); Department of Global Health and Social Medicine,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA (G.F.K., G.B.); Partners In Health, Boston, MA
(G.F.K., G.B.); Department of Medicine, Groote Schuur Hospital and University of 
Cape Town, South Africa (B.M.M.); Universidade Eduardo Mondlane and the Instituto
Nacional de Saúde, Maputo, Mozambique (A.O.M.); Department of Medicine, School of
Medicine Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia, Lima, Peru (J.J.M.); CRONICAS
Center of Excellence in Chronic Diseases, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia,
Lima, Peru (J.J.M.); MRC-PHE Centre for Environment and Health, and Department of
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Imperial College London,
UK (M.E.); Jan Swasthya Sahyog, Village and Post Ganiyari, Bilaspur
(Chhattisgarh), India (Y.J.); Oxford Department of International Development,
University of Oxford, UK (G.R.); Department of Epidemiology, Boston University
School of Public Health, MA (E.J.B.); Department of Social and Behavioral
Sciences, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA (S.V.S.); and
Division of Global Health Equity, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA
(G.B.).

The poorest billion people are distributed throughout the world, though most are 
concentrated in rural sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. Cardiovascular disease
(CVD) data can be sparse in low- and middle-income countries beyond urban
centers. Despite this urban bias, CVD registries from the poorest countries have 
long revealed a predominance of nonatherosclerotic stroke, hypertensive heart
disease, nonischemic and Chagas cardiomyopathies, rheumatic heart disease, and
congenital heart anomalies, among others. Ischemic heart disease has been
relatively uncommon. Here, we summarize what is known about the epidemiology of
CVDs among the world's poorest people and evaluate the relevance of global
targets for CVD control in this population. We assessed both primary data
sources, and the 2013 Global Burden of Disease Study modeled estimates in the
world's 16 poorest countries where 62% of the population are among the poorest
billion. We found that ischemic heart disease accounted for only 12% of the
combined CVD and congenital heart anomaly disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
in the poorest countries, compared with 51% of DALYs in high-income countries. We
found that as little as 53% of the combined CVD and congenital heart anomaly
burden (1629/3049 DALYs per 100 000) was attributed to behavioral or metabolic
risk factors in the poorest countries (eg, in Niger, 82% of the population among 
the poorest billion) compared with 85% of the combined CVD and congenital heart
anomaly burden (4439/5199 DALYs) in high-income countries. Further, of the
combined CVD and congenital heart anomaly burden, 34% was accrued in people under
age 30 years in the poorest countries, while only 3% is accrued under age 30
years in high-income countries. We conclude although the current global targets
for noncommunicable disease and CVD control will help diminish premature CVD
death in the poorest populations, they are not sufficient. Specifically, the
current framework (1) excludes deaths of people <30 years of age and deaths
attributable to congenital heart anomalies, and (2) emphasizes interventions to
prevent and treat conditions attributed to behavioral and metabolic risks
factors. We recommend a complementary strategy for the poorest populations that
targets premature death at younger ages, addresses environmental and infectious
risks, and introduces broader integrated health system interventions, including
cardiac surgery for congenital and rheumatic heart disease.

© 2016 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.116.008731 
PMID: 27297348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


99. PLoS One. 2016 Jun 9;11(6):e0150210. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0150210.
eCollection 2016.

Aberrant Glycosylation in the Left Ventricle and Plasma of Rats with Cardiac
Hypertrophy and Heart Failure.

Nagai-Okatani C(1), Minamino N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular
Center Research Institute, Suita, Osaka, Japan.

Targeted proteomics focusing on post-translational modifications, including
glycosylation, is a useful strategy for discovering novel biomarkers. To apply
this strategy effectively to cardiac hypertrophy and resultant heart failure, we 
aimed to characterize glycosylation profiles in the left ventricle and plasma of 
rats with cardiac hypertrophy. Dahl salt-sensitive hypertensive rats, a model of 
hypertension-induced cardiac hypertrophy, were fed a high-salt (8% NaCl) diet
starting at 6 weeks. As a result, they exhibited cardiac hypertrophy at 12 weeks 
and partially impaired cardiac function at 16 weeks compared with control rats
fed a low-salt (0.3% NaCl) diet. Gene expression analysis revealed significant
changes in the expression of genes encoding glycosyltransferases and
glycosidases. Glycoproteome profiling using lectin microarrays indicated
upregulation of mucin-type O-glycosylation, especially disialyl-T, and
downregulation of core fucosylation on N-glycans, detected by specific
interactions with Amaranthus caudatus and Aspergillus oryzae lectins,
respectively. Upregulation of plasma α-l-fucosidase activity was identified as a 
biomarker candidate for cardiac hypertrophy, which is expected to support the
existing marker, atrial natriuretic peptide and its related peptides. Proteomic
analysis identified cysteine and glycine-rich protein 3, a master regulator of
cardiac muscle function, as an O-glycosylated protein with altered glycosylation 
in the rats with cardiac hypertrophy, suggesting that alternations in
O-glycosylation affect its oligomerization and function. In conclusion, our data 
provide evidence of significant changes in glycosylation pattern, specifically
mucin-type O-glycosylation and core defucosylation, in the pathogenesis of
cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure, suggesting that they are potential
biomarkers for these diseases.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0150210 
PMCID: PMC4900630
PMID: 27281159  [PubMed - in process]


100. Cell Death Dis. 2016 Jun 9;7(6):e2258. doi: 10.1038/cddis.2016.164.

Endoplasmic reticulum stress in bone marrow-derived cells prevents acute cardiac 
inflammation and injury in response to angiotensin II.

Li TT(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Jia LX(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Zhang WM(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Li
XY(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Zhang J(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Li YL(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Li
HH(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Qi YF(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Du J(1,)(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing 100029, China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Remodeling-Related Cardiovascular Diseases, Ministry of 
Education, Beijing 100029, China. (3)Beijing Collaborative Innovation Center for 
Cardiovascular Disorders, Beijing 100029, China. (4)Beijing Institute of Heart,
Lung & Blood Vessel Disease, Beijing 100029, China.

Inflammation plays an important role in hypertensive cardiac injury. The
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress pathway is involved in the inflammatory
response. However, the role of ER stress in elevated angiotensin II (Ang
II)-induced cardiac injury remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the
role of ER stress in Ang II-induced hypertensive cardiac injury. Transcriptome
analysis and quantitative real-time PCR showed that Ang II infusion in mice
increased ER stress-related genes expression in the heart. C/EBP homologous
protein (CHOP) deficiency, a key mediator of ER stress, increased infiltration of
inflammatory cells, especially neutrophils, the production of inflammatory
cytokines, chemokines in Ang II-infused mouse hearts. CHOP deficiency increased
Ang II-induced cardiac fibrotic injury: (1) Masson trichrome staining showed
increased fibrotic areas, (2) immunohistochemistry staining showed increased
expression of α-smooth muscle actin, transforming growth factor β1 and (3)
quantitative real-time PCR showed increased expression of collagen in
CHOP-deficient mouse heart. Bone marrow transplantation experiments indicated
that CHOP deficiency in bone marrow cells was responsible for Ang II-induced
cardiac fibrotic injury. Moreover, TUNEL staining and flow cytometry revealed
that CHOP deficiency decreased neutrophil apoptosis in response to Ang II. Taken 
together, our study demonstrated that hypertension induced ER stress after Ang II
infusion. ER stress in bone marrow-derived cells protected acute cardiac
inflammation and injury in response to Ang II.

DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2016.164 
PMCID: PMC5143392
PMID: 27277680  [PubMed - in process]


101. J Hypertens. 2016 Sep;34(9):1831-7. doi: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000000989.

Electrocardiographic left atrial abnormalities and risk of incident stroke in
hypertensive patients with electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy.

Okin PM(1), Kamel H, Kjeldsen SE, Devereux RB.

Author information: 
(1)aDivision of Cardiology bDepartment of Neurology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New 
York, New York, USA cDepartment of Cardiology, University of Oslo, Ullevål
Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Recent findings in population-based studies suggest that abnormal P
wave terminal force in lead V1 (PTFV1), a marker of left atrial abnormalities
such as fibrosis, dilatation and elevated filling pressures, is associated with
incident ischemic stroke, even in the absence of atrial fibrillation. However,
whether PTFV1 predicts incident stroke in hypertensive patients during blood
pressure lowering has not been examined.
METHODS: Risk of incident stroke was examined in relation to abnormal PTFV1 on a 
baseline ECG in 7778 hypertensive patients with ECG left ventricular hypertrophy,
no history of atrial fibrillation, in sinus rhythm on their baseline ECG with no 
incident atrial fibrillation during follow-up, who were randomly assigned to
losartan-based or atenolol-based treatment. Results focused on the subset of
patients between 55 and 60 years old (n = 1879) because of a significant
interaction between PTFV1 and age in Cox analyses. Abnormal PTFV1 was defined by 
the presence of a negative terminal P wave in lead V1 with
amplitude × duration ≥ 4000 μV ms.
RESULTS: During mean follow-up of 4.8 ± 0.9 years, 364 patients (4.7%) of the
overall study population and 45 patients (2.4%) in the subset of patients aged 60
years or less experienced a definite stroke. In the overall population, abnormal 
PTFV1 was not a significant predictor of incident stroke [hazard ratio 1.12, 95% 
confidence interval (CI) 0.91-1.38, P = 0.301], but there was a highly
significant interaction of PTFV1 with age stratified at 60 (P = 0.009, hazard
ratio 2.30, 95% CI 1.27-4.13, P = 0.006 for abnormal PTFV1 in the interaction
model). Further analyses in the subset of patients aged 60 years or less revealed
a higher incidence of stroke occurred in those with abnormal than normal baseline
PTFV1: incidence rate per 1000 person-years, 7.8 (95% CI 5.2-11.4) vs 3.4 (95% CI
2.2-5.2; P = 0.004); a greater than two-fold increased risk of incident stroke
(hazard ratio 2.31, 95% CI 1.28-4.16, P = 0.005) in univariate Cox analysis; and 
in multivariable Cox regression models that adjusted for other significant
predictors of incident stroke in this population (sex, history of stroke or
transient ischemic attack, ischemic heart disease or diabetes, baseline
creatinine and in-treatment SBP), that abnormal PTFV1 remained associated with a 
greater than two-fold increased risk of incident stroke (hazard ratio 2.06; 95%
CI 1.14-3.74, P = 0.017).
CONCLUSION: Abnormal PTFV1, a marker of left atrial abnormality, was strongly
associated with incident stroke in hypertensive patients, independent of
in-treatment SBP and other predictors of incident stroke. This association, in
the absence of detectable atrial fibrillation, suggests that an underlying atrial
cardiopathy may cause left atrial thrombus formation and a subsequent stroke
without intervening clinically recognized atrial fibrillation.

DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000000989 
PMID: 27254312  [PubMed - in process]


102. Public Health Rep. 2016 May-Jun;131(3):438-48.

County Health Factors Associated with Avoidable Deaths from Cardiovascular
Disease in the United States, 2006-2010.

Greer S(1), Schieb LJ(1), Ritchey M(1), George M(1), Casper M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Division for Heart Disease and
Stroke Prevention, Atlanta, GA.

OBJECTIVE: Many cardiovascular deaths can be avoided through primary prevention
to address cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors or better access to quality 
medical care. In this cross-sectional study, we examined the relationship between
four county-level health factors and rates of avoidable death from CVD during
2006-2010.
METHODS: We defined avoidable deaths from CVD as deaths among U.S. residents
younger than 75 years of age caused by the following underlying conditions, using
International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision, Clinical Modification
(ICD-10-CM) codes: ischemic heart disease (I20-I25), chronic rheumatic heart
disease (I05-I09), hypertensive disease (I10-I15), or cerebrovascular disease
(I60-I69). We stratified county-level death rates by race (non-Hispanic white or 
non-Hispanic black) and age-standardized them to the 2000 U.S. standard
population. We used County Health Rankings data to rank county-level z scores
corresponding to four health factors: health behavior, clinical care, social and 
economic factors, and physical environment. We used Poisson rate ratios (RRs) and
95% confidence intervals (CIs) to compare rates of avoidable death from CVD by
health-factor quartile.
RESULTS: In a comparison of worst-ranked and best-ranked counties, social and
economic factors had the strongest association with rates of avoidable death per 
100,000 population from CVD for the total population (RR=1.49; 95% CI 1.39, 1.60)
and for each racial/ethnic group (non-Hispanic white: RR=1.37; 95% CI 1.29, 1.45;
non-Hispanic black: RR=1.54; 95% CI 1.42, 1.67). Among the non-Hispanic white
population, health behaviors had the next strongest association, followed by
clinical care. Among the non-Hispanic black population, we observed a significant
association with clinical care and physical environment in a comparison of
worst-ranked and best-ranked counties.
CONCLUSION: Social and economic factors have the strongest association with rates
of avoidable death from CVD by county, which reinforces the importance of social 
and economic interventions to address geographic disparities in avoidable deaths 
from CVD.


PMCID: PMC4869081 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 27252564  [PubMed - in process]


103. Pharmacology. 2016;98(3-4):134-70. doi: 10.1159/000446704. Epub 2016 Jun 2.

Medicines and Vegetable Oils as Hidden Causes of Cardiovascular Disease and
Diabetes.

Okuyama H(1), Langsjoen PH, Ohara N, Hashimoto Y, Hamazaki T, Yoshida S,
Kobayashi T, Langsjoen AM.

Author information: 
(1)Nagoya City University, and Institute for Consumer Science and Human Life,
Midoriku, Nagoya, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Positive associations have been observed between cardiovascular
disease (CVD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM), but their causal relationship
has not been clarified. Nevertheless, guidelines from relevant medical societies 
recommend using cholesterol lowering medication (statin) for both types of
patients. Medicines with several different action mechanisms have been developed,
and the effectiveness of different lifestyle modifications has been studied
extensively for the prevention of DM, which was successful in improving clinical 
marker status in relatively short-term treatments, but none have been shown to be
effective in improving long-term outcomes (mortality from CVD and all causes).
SUMMARY: Statin-induced suppression of prenyl intermediates in the cholesterol
biosynthetic pathway has been linked to stimulated atherosclerosis and heart
failure. On the other hand, certain types of vegetable oil and hydrogenated oil
shortened the survival of stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats by
decreasing platelet number, increasing hemorrhagic tendency and damaging kidney
functions, which could not be accounted for by their fatty acid and phytosterol
compositions. These vegetable oils and medicines such as statin and warfarin
share, in part, a common mechanism to inhibit vitamin K2-dependent processes,
which was interpreted to lead to increased onset of CVD, DM, chronic kidney
disease, bone fracture and even mental disorder. Impaired vitamin K2-dependent
processes by some types of vegetable oils and medicines, but not plasma high low 
density lipoprotein cholesterol, were proposed as the cause of CVD, DM and other 
lifestyle-related diseases. High n-6/n-3 fatty acid ratio of ingested foods, but 
not animal fats, was emphasized to be another risk factor for many of the
diseases described above.
KEY MESSAGES: To date, no randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have been performed
to prove the above interpretation. However, the opposite types of RCT trials have
been performed by increasing the intake of high-linoleic vegetable oils and
reducing that of animal fats, which resulted in increased CVD and all-cause
mortality. The amounts of these vegetable oils to exhibit adverse effects in
animal studies are not huge (<6 energy %), which should not be overlooked nor
disregarded.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000446704 
PMID: 27251151  [PubMed - in process]


104. Circ J. 2016 Jun 24;80(7):1491-8. doi: 10.1253/circj.CJ-16-0433. Epub 2016 Jun 1.

Rho Kinases and Cardiac Remodeling.

Shimizu T(1), Liao JK.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Chicago.

Hypertensive cardiac remodeling is characterized by left ventricular hypertrophy 
and interstitial fibrosis, which can lead to heart failure with preserved
ejection fraction. The Rho-associated coiled-coil containing kinases (ROCKs) are 
members of the serine/threonine protein kinase family, which mediates the
downstream effects of the small GTP-binding protein RhoA. There are 2 isoforms:
ROCK1 and ROCK2. They have different functions in different types of cells and
tissues. There is growing evidence that ROCKs contribute to the development of
cardiovascular diseases, including cardiac fibrosis, hypertrophy, and subsequent 
heart failure. Recent experimental studies using ROCK inhibitors, such as
fasudil, have shown the benefits of ROCK inhibition in cardiac remodeling. Mice
lacking each ROCK isoform also exhibit reduced myocardial fibrosis in a variety
of pathological models of cardiac remodeling. Indeed, clinical studies with
fasudil have suggested that ROCKs could be potential novel therapeutic targets
for cardiovascular diseases. In this review, we summarize the current
understanding of the roles of ROCKs in the development of cardiac fibrosis and
hypertrophy and discuss their therapeutic potential for deleterious cardiac
remodeling. (Circ J 2016; 80: 1491-1498).

DOI: 10.1253/circj.CJ-16-0433 
PMID: 27251065  [PubMed - in process]


105. J Am Heart Assoc. 2016 May 31;5(6). pii: e003118. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.115.003118.

Restoration of Mitochondrial Cardiolipin Attenuates Cardiac Damage in Swine
Renovascular Hypertension.

Eirin A(1), Ebrahimi B(1), Kwon SH(1), Fiala JA(1), Williams BJ(1), Woollard
JR(1), He Q(2), Gupta RC(3), Sabbah HN(3), Prakash YS(4), Textor SC(1), Lerman
A(5), Lerman LO(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(2)Diabetes and Obesity Research Center, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research
Institute, Orlando, FL. (3)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Henry Ford Health
System, Detroit, MI. (4)Department of Anesthesiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(5)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN. (6)Division
of Nephrology and Hypertension, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN Division of
Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN lerman.lilach@mayo.edu.

BACKGROUND: Renovascular hypertension (RVH) impairs cardiac structure and left
ventricular (LV) function, but whether mitochondrial injury is implicated in
RVH-induced myocardial damage and dysfunction has not been defined. We
hypothesized that cardiac remodeling in swine RVH is partly attributable to
cardiac mitochondrial injury.
METHODS AND RESULTS: After 12 weeks of hypercholesterolemic (HC)-RVH or control
(n=14 each), pigs were treated for another 4 weeks with vehicle or with the
mitochondrial-targeted peptide (MTP), Bendavia (0.1 mg/kg subcutaneously,
5 days/week), which stabilizes mitochondrial inner-membrane cardiolipin (n=7
each). Cardiac function was subsequently assessed by multidetector-computed
tomography and oxygenation by blood-oxygen-level-dependent magnetic resonance
imaging. Cardiolipin content, mitochondrial biogenesis, as well as
sarcoplasmic-reticulum calcium cycling, myocardial tissue injury, and coronary
endothelial function were assessed ex vivo. Additionally, mitochondrial
cardiolipin content, oxidative stress, and bioenergetics were assessed in rat
cardiomyocytes incubated with tert-butyl hydroperoxide (tBHP) untreated or
treated with MTP. Chronic mitoprotection in vivo restored cardiolipin content and
mitochondrial biogenesis. Thapsigargin-sensitive sarcoplasmic reticulum
Ca(2+)-ATPase activity that declined in HC-RVH normalized in MTP-treated pigs.
Mitoprotection also improved LV relaxation (E/A ratio) and ameliorated cardiac
hypertrophy, without affecting blood pressure or systolic function. Myocardial
remodeling and coronary endothelial function improved only in MTP-treated pigs.
In tBHP-treated cardiomyocytes, mitochondrial targeting attenuated a fall in
cardiolipin content and bioenergetics.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic mitoprotection blunted myocardial hypertrophy, improved LV
relaxation, and attenuated myocardial cellular and microvascular remodeling,
despite sustained HC-RVH, suggesting that mitochondrial injury partly contributes
to hypertensive cardiomyopathy.

© 2016 The Authors. Published on behalf of the American Heart Association, Inc., 
by Wiley Blackwell.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.115.003118 
PMCID: PMC4937260
PMID: 27247333  [PubMed - in process]


106. Eur J Pediatr. 2016 Aug;175(8):1031-8. doi: 10.1007/s00431-016-2736-4. Epub 2016 
May 30.

Circadian and ultradian cardiovascular rhythmicity in obese children.

Saner C(1), Simonetti GD(2,)(3), Wühl E(4), Mullis PE(5), Janner M(5).

Author information: 
(1)University Children's Hospital UKBB, Spitalstrasse 33, CH-4056, Basel,
Switzerland. (2)Division of Pediatric Nephrology, Department of Pediatrics,
Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University of Bern, Freiburgstrasse 15,
CH-3010, Bern, Switzerland. giacomo.simonetti@eoc.ch. (3)Pediatric Department of 
Southern Switzerland, Via Ospedale, CH-6500, Bellinzona, Switzerland.
giacomo.simonetti@eoc.ch. (4)Center for Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine,
University of Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 430, D-69120, Heidelberg, Germany. 
(5)Division of Pediatric Endocrinology, Diabetology and Metabolism, Department of
Pediatrics, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University of Bern,
Freiburgstrasse 15, CH- 3010, Bern, Switzerland.

Altered circadian and ultradian blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR)
rhythmicity have been described in diseases with increased cardiovascular risk.
We analyzed cardiovascular rhythmicity in obese children. BP and HR rhythmicity
was assessed with Fourier analysis from 24-h ambulatory BP measurements in 75
obese children and compared with an age- and gender-matched, lean healthy
reference group of 150 subjects. Multivariate regression analysis was applied to 
identify significant independent factors explaining variability of rhythmicity.
Prevalence of 24- and 6-h BP rhythmicity in the obese group was lower (p = 0.03
and p = 0.02), whereas the prevalence of HR rhythmicity was comparable in both
groups. Excluding hypertensive participants, the results remained similar.
Twenty-four-hour BP and HR acrophase were delayed in obese children (p = 0.004,
p < 0.0001), 24-h BP amplitude did not differ (p = 0.07), and 24-h HR amplitude
was blunted (p = < 0.0001). BP Mesor in the obese group was higher (p = 0.02); HR
Mesor did not differ (p = 0.1). Multivariate regression analysis failed to
identify a single anthropometric or blood pressure parameter explaining the
variability of BP and HR rhythmicity.CONCLUSION: Prevalence and parameters of
circadian and ultradian BP and HR rhythmicity in obese children are altered
compared to a healthy reference group, independent of preexisting hypertension.
WHAT IS KNOWN: • Altered cardiovascular rhythmicity has been described in
children with different diseases such as primary hypertension or chronic renal
failure. What is New: • This study reveals altered cardiovascular rhythmicity in 
obese children compared to an age and gender-matched healthy reference group
independent from preexisting hypertension.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-016-2736-4 
PMID: 27240757  [PubMed - in process]


107. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2016 Oct;48(10):1925-34. doi: 10.1249/MSS.0000000000000995.

Cardiovascular and Renal Effects of Birdseed Associated with Aerobic Exercise in 
Rats.

Passos CS(1), Ribeiro RS, Rosa TS, Neves RV, Costa F, Ginoza M, Boim MA.

Author information: 
(1)1Renal Division, Department of Medicine, Federal University of São Paulo, São 
Paulo, BRAZIL; and 2Graduate Program in Physical Education and Health, Catholic
University of Brasília, Brasília, BRAZIL.

INTRODUCTION: Phalaris canariensis L. (Pc), known as birdseed, is rich in
tryptophan. The aqueous extract of Pc (AEPc) treatment reduced systolic blood
pressure (SBP) in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) via mechanisms mediated
by the tryptophan metabolizing enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO).
Hypertension is a risk factor to cardiovascular and renal diseases. Considering
that physical exercise improves hypertension and cardiovascular function, the aim
of this study was to evaluate whether the benefits of exercise (Ex) would be
enhanced by concomitant AEPc treatment (400 mg·kg·d p.o.).
METHODS: Vascular reactivity was assessed in aorta rings from SHR treated with
AEPc for 4 wk. Training intensity was based on maximal lactate steady state
obtained during the 2-wk adaptation period in a treadmill running. Then exercised
(60 min running, five times per week during 8 wk) or sedentary SHR were untreated
or treated with AEPc during 8 wk. SBP was estimated by plethysmograph. Heart mass
and body mass were used to obtain the index of cardiac hypertrophy. Glucose
tolerance test was evaluated by oral glucose overload, and the mRNA expressions
of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, interleukin 1β (IL-1β), and IL-10 in the kidney
were obtained by real time polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS: AEPc induced endothelial-mediated vascular relaxation. AEPc or Ex alone 
reduced SBP, the index of cardiac hypertrophy and ventricular fibrosis, improved 
glucose metabolism, and attenuated proteinuria and the renal expression of the
proinflammatory IL-1β with an overexpression in the anti-inflammatory IL-10. AEPc
potentiated the benefits of the Ex on the cardiovascular system, metabolic
parameters, and renal inflammation.
CONCLUSION: Birdseed reduced cardiovascular risk related to hypertension and had 
positive effects when associated to physical exercise.

DOI: 10.1249/MSS.0000000000000995 
PMID: 27232241  [PubMed - in process]


108. Int J Prev Med. 2016 May 4;7:71. doi: 10.4103/2008-7802.181757. eCollection 2016.

Tobacco Use and its Relationship with Health Complaints Among Employees of
Kermanshah Province, Iran.

Khademi N(1), Babanejad M(1), Najafi F(2), Nikbakht MR(3), Hamzeh B(4), Mohammadi
N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Center, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences,
Kermanshah, Iran. (2)Kermanshah Health Research Center, Kermanshah University of 
Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran. (3)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of
Pharmacy, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran. (4)Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Kermanshah University of Medical
Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Identifying the pattern of tobacco use and its related factors in
employees is crucial. This study aimed to investigate the pattern of tobacco use 
and its related factors in employees of Kermanshah Province, Iran.
METHODS: In 2012, 7129 employees were investigated in a cross-sectional study
using the census method. Data on tobacco use and on several chronic diseases
obtained using a standardized questionnaire on noncommunicable diseases risk
factors of the World Health Organization through face-to-face interviews.
Statistical analysis was performed based on the Chi-square test and multivariate 
logistic regression.
RESULTS: In general, the prevalence of tobacco use, smoking cigarettes, and
smoking waterpipe was 9.9%, 8.9%, and 1.2% among the employees, respectively.
Tobacco use was significantly higher in the age group over 40 (14.0%), in male
gender (13.3%), in married individuals (10.8%) and in those with diploma and
lower degree (16.4%), (P < 0.001). At the individual level, the odds ratio of
tobacco use was 1.5 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.2-1.8) in hypertensive, 1.8 
(95% CI: 1.2-2.6) in diabetic employees and 1.7 (95% CI: 1.3-2.3) in those with
heart diseases, compared to healthy individuals. After adjusting for age, gender,
marital status and educational level, there was not any significant relationship 
between tobacco use and health complaints and only the demographic variables
remained significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Preventive public health policies are mandatory especially in
younger ages and male employees to promote their knowledge on disadvantages of
tobacco use.

DOI: 10.4103/2008-7802.181757 
PMCID: PMC4872545
PMID: 27226894  [PubMed]


109. Lancet. 2016 Jul 30;388(10043):465-75. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)30467-6. Epub
2016 May 20.

Associations of urinary sodium excretion with cardiovascular events in
individuals with and without hypertension: a pooled analysis of data from four
studies.

Mente A(1), O'Donnell M(2), Rangarajan S(3), Dagenais G(4), Lear S(5), McQueen
M(6), Diaz R(7), Avezum A(8), Lopez-Jaramillo P(9), Lanas F(10), Li W(11), Lu
Y(12), Yi S(12), Rensheng L(13), Iqbal R(14), Mony P(15), Yusuf R(16), Yusoff
K(17), Szuba A(18), Oguz A(19), Rosengren A(20), Bahonar A(21), Yusufali A(22),
Schutte AE(23), Chifamba J(24), Mann JF(25), Anand SS(26), Teo K(3), Yusuf S(26);
PURE, EPIDREAM and ONTARGET/TRANSCEND Investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Population Health Research Institute, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, ON, 
Canada; Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Hamilton, ON,
Canada. Electronic address: andrew.mente@phri.ca. (2)Population Health Research
Institute, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, ON, Canada; Department of
Medicine, Hamilton, ON, Canada; HRB-Clinical Research Facility, NUI Galway,
Ireland. (3)Population Health Research Institute, Hamilton Health Sciences,
Hamilton, ON, Canada. (4)Laval University Heart and Lungs Institute, Quebec City,
QC, Canada. (5)Faculty of Health Sciences, Simon Fraser University, BC, Canada;
Division of Cardiology, Providence Health Care, BC, Canada. (6)Department of
Laboratory Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. (7)Estudios
Clínicos Latinoamérica, Rosario, Argentina. (8)Dante Pazzanese Institute of
Cardiology, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil. (9)Fundacion Oftalmologica de
Santander-FOSCAL, Medical School, Universidad de Santander
Floridablanca-Santander, Colombia. (10)Universidad de La Frontera, Temuco, Chile.
(11)National Centre for Cardiovascular Diseases, Cardiovascular Institute and
Fuwai Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China. (12)Medical 
Research & Biometrics Center, National Center for Cardiovascular Diseases, FuWai 
Hospital, Beijing, China. (13)Center for Disease Control & Prevention Nanchang
County, Nanchang City, Jiangxi Province, China. (14)Departments of Community
Health Sciences and Medicine, Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan.
(15)Community Health & Epidemiology, St John's Research Institute, Bangalore,
India. (16)The School of Life Sciences and The Centre for Health, Population, and
Development, Independent University, Bangladesh. (17)Faculty of Medicine,
Universiti Teknologi MARA, Sungai Buloh, Selangor, Malaysia. (18)Division of
Angiology, Wroclaw Medical University, Wrocław, Poland; Department of Internal
Medicine, 4th Military Hospital in Wroclaw, Poland. (19)Istanbul Medeniyet
University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Istanbul,
Turkey. (20)Sahlgrenska Academy University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(21)Hypertension Research Center, Cardiovascular Research Institute, Isfahan
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran. (22)Hatta Hospital, Dubai Health
Authority, Dubai, UAE. (23)MRC Unit for Hypertension and CVD/Hypertension in
Africa Research Team, North-West University, Potchefstroom, North West Province, 
South Africa. (24)University of Zimbabwe, College of Health Sciences, Physiology 
Department, Harare, Zimbabwe. (25)Population Health Research Institute, Hamilton 
Health Sciences, Hamilton, ON, Canada; Department of Nephrology, University of
Erlangen-Nurnberg and Munich General Hospitals, Munich, Germany. (26)Population
Health Research Institute, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, ON, Canada;
Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Hamilton, ON, Canada;
Department of Medicine, Hamilton, ON, Canada.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2016 Jul 30;388(10043):439-40.

BACKGROUND: Several studies reported a U-shaped association between urinary
sodium excretion and cardiovascular disease events and mortality. Whether these
associations vary between those individuals with and without hypertension is
uncertain. We aimed to explore whether the association between sodium intake and 
cardiovascular disease events and all-cause mortality is modified by hypertension
status.
METHODS: In this pooled analysis, we studied 133,118 individuals (63,559 with
hypertension and 69,559 without hypertension), median age of 55 years (IQR
45-63), from 49 countries in four large prospective studies and estimated 24-h
urinary sodium excretion (as group-level measure of intake). We related this to
the composite outcome of death and major cardiovascular disease events over a
median of 4.2 years (IQR 3.0-5.0) and blood pressure.
FINDINGS: Increased sodium intake was associated with greater increases in
systolic blood pressure in individuals with hypertension (2.08 mm Hg change per g
sodium increase) compared with individuals without hypertension (1.22 mm Hg
change per g; pinteraction<0.0001). In those individuals with hypertension (6835 
events), sodium excretion of 7 g/day or more (7060 [11%] of population with
hypertension: hazard ratio [HR] 1.23 [95% CI 1.11-1.37]; p<0.0001) and less than 
3 g/day (7006 [11%] of population with hypertension: 1.34 [1.23-1.47]; p<0.0001) 
were both associated with increased risk compared with sodium excretion of 4-5
g/day (reference 25% of the population with hypertension). In those individuals
without hypertension (3021 events), compared with 4-5 g/day (18,508 [27%] of the 
population without hypertension), higher sodium excretion was not associated with
risk of the primary composite outcome (≥ 7 g/day in 6271 [9%] of the population
without hypertension; HR 0.90 [95% CI 0.76-1.08]; p=0.2547), whereas an excretion
of less than 3 g/day was associated with a significantly increased risk (7547
[11%] of the population without hypertension; HR 1.26 [95% CI 1.10-1.45];
p=0.0009).
INTERPRETATION: Compared with moderate sodium intake, high sodium intake is
associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events and death in
hypertensive populations (no association in normotensive population), while the
association of low sodium intake with increased risk of cardiovascular events and
death is observed in those with or without hypertension. These data suggest that 
lowering sodium intake is best targeted at populations with hypertension who
consume high sodium diets.
FUNDING: Full funding sources listed at end of paper (see Acknowledgments).

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)30467-6 
PMID: 27216139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2016 Jun;65(3):136-41. doi:
10.1016/j.ancard.2016.04.020.

[Prevalence of asymmetrical blood pressure in uncontrolled hypertensive patients 
is high and highly related with cardiovascular diseases prevalence].

[Article in French]

Allaert FA(1), Fouchères G(2), Elias-Billon I(3), Maigret P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Cenbiotech, impasse Françoise-Dolto, 21000 Dijon, France. (2)6, rue
Paul-Cabet, 21000 Dijon, France. (3)Département médical, laboratoire Menarini, 1,
rue du Jura, 94633 Rungis, France. (4)Département médical, laboratoire Menarini, 
1, rue du Jura, 94633 Rungis, France. Electronic address:
departement.medical@menarini.fr.

A meta-analysis has shown that an asymmetry of the blood pressure (ABP) between
arm≥15mmHg and perhaps≥10mmHg is associated with an increase of cardiovascular
diseases. To describe the prevalence of ABP in patients presenting an
uncontrolled blood pressure (BP) under treatment, an observational cross
sectional study was conducted. Factors influencing prevalence of ABP were
identified and relation of ABP with the frequency of the cardiovascular diseases 
or subclinicals organs damages was evaluated. A total of 2417 patients,
63.3±11.0years old, presenting uncontrolled BP (according ESC criteria) by a
previous antihypertensive therapy were included. Only 36.8% (95% CI [34.9-38.7]) 
were presenting a between-arm difference in systolic blood pressure≥10mmHg, and
17.1% (95% CI [15.6-18.6])≥15mmHg. MRA shows systolic ABP≥10mmHg prevalence was
influenced by dyslipidemia (OR: 1.5 [1.2-1.7], P<0.0001) and by family history of
early cardiovascular disease (OR: 1.6 [1.3-1.9], P<0.0001). MRA adjusted on CVRF 
shows that besides the dyslipidemia effect, systolic ABP≥10mmHg influences the
frequency of sub-clinical impairment of target organ (OR: 1.6 [1.3-1.9],
P<0.0001), of coronary heart disease (OR: 1.8 [1.4-2.4], P<0.0001), and globally 
the presence of a cardiovascular disease (OR: 1.7 [1.4-2.1], P<0.0001). The
effect on stroke frequency was showed with an systolic ABP≥15mmHg (OR: 1.6
[1.1-2.4], P<0.02). In uncontrolled hypertensive patients, screening of an ABP
should help to identify clinically patients with high risk of cardiovascular
diseases or with subclinical organs damages.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ancard.2016.04.020 
PMID: 27211351  [PubMed - in process]


111. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2017 Jan;83(1):20-32. doi: 10.1111/bcp.13013. Epub 2016 Jun 
17.

Traditional Chinese medicines in the management of cardiovascular diseases: a
comprehensive systematic review.

Layne K(1), Ferro A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Cardiovascular Division, King's College
London, London, UK.

AIMS: The aim was to perform a systematic review of the efficacy of traditional
Chinese medicines (TCM) in cardiovascular disease.
METHODS: Electronic databases were searched up to 11 November 2015 for all
randomized-controlled trials evaluating the effect of TCM in hypertension,
ischaemic stroke, heart failure, coronary heart disease and type 2 diabetes
mellitus. Pooled odds ratios (ORs) were calculated using a fixed-effects model.
RESULTS: Four hypertension studies were eligible for statistical analysis and
included 133 patients receiving TCM and 130 control patients. There were
significant reductions in systolic blood pressure in patients receiving TCM,
comparable to results achieved with pharmaceutical medicines. An OR of 3.781 (95%
confidence interval 2.392, 5.977; P = 0.000) was observed for the
anti-hypertensive effect of TCM. Significant heterogeneity was present (P =
0.011), with a tendency towards publication bias that did not reach significance 
(P = 0.05275). Outcome measures for other cardiovascular diseases were
inconsistent.
CONCLUSIONS: Certain TCM compounds appear to have significant anti-hypertensive
effects, and although some are associated in some studies with improved outcomes 
in coronary heart disease, heart failure and type 2 diabetes mellitus, the data
are inconsistent and will require large-scale randomized-controlled trials to
allow full evaluation of any potential therapeutic benefit in these areas.

© 2016 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bcp.13013 
PMID: 27195823  [PubMed - in process]


112. J Bioenerg Biomembr. 2016 Aug;48(4):425-36. doi: 10.1007/s10863-016-9666-8. Epub 
2016 May 18.

Effects of magnesium supplementation on electrophysiological remodeling of
cardiac myocytes in L-NAME induced hypertensive rats.

Ozturk N(1), Olgar Y(1), Aslan M(2), Ozdemir S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Biophysics, Akdeniz University, Antalya,
Turkey. (2)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Biochemistry, Akdeniz University,
Antalya, Turkey. (3)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Biophysics, Akdeniz
University, Antalya, Turkey. osemir@akdeniz.edu.tr.

Hypertension is one of the major risk factors of cardiac hypertrophy and
magnesium deficiency is suggested to be a contributing factor in the progression 
of this complication. In this study, we aimed to investigate the relationship
between intracellular free Mg(2+) levels and electrophysiological changes
developed in the myocardium of L-NAME induced hypertensive rats. Hypertension was
induced by administration of 40 mg/kg of L-NAME for 6 weeks, while magnesium
treated rats fed with a diet supplemented with 1 g/kg of MgO for the same period.
L-NAME administration for 6 weeks elicited a significant increase in blood
pressure which was corrected with MgO treatment; thereby cardiac hypertrophy
developing secondary to hypertension was prevented. Cytosolic free magnesium
levels of ventricular myocytes were significantly decreased with hypertension and
magnesium administration restored these changes. Hypertension significantly
decreased the fractional shortening with slowing of shortening kinetics in left
ventricular myocytes whereas magnesium treatment was capable of restoring
hypertension-induced contractile dysfunction. Long-term magnesium treatment
significantly restored the hypertension-induced prolongation in action potentials
of ventricular myocytes and suppressed Ito and Iss currents. In contrast,
hypertension dependent decrement in intracellular Mg(2+) level did not cause a
significant change in L-type Ca(2+) currents, SR Ca(2+) content and NCX activity.
Nevertheless, hypertension mediated increase in superoxide anion, hydrogen
peroxide and protein oxidation mitigated with magnesium treatment. In conclusion,
magnesium administration improves mechanical abnormalities observed in
hypertensive rat ventricular myocytes due to reduced oxidative stress. It is
likely that, changes in intracellular magnesium balance may contribute to the
pathophysiology of chronic heart diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s10863-016-9666-8 
PMID: 27193439  [PubMed - in process]


113. Blood Press. 2017 Feb;26(1):2-8. doi: 10.3109/08037051.2016.1167355. Epub 2016
May 13.

Regulatory mechanisms in arterial hypertension: role of microRNA in
pathophysiology and therapy.

Klimczak D(1,)(2), Jazdzewski K(3,)(4), Kuch M(5).

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Heart Failure and Cardiac Rehabilitation, Department of
Cardiology, Hypertension and Internal Medicine, Second Faculty of Medicine ,
Medical University of Warsaw , Warsaw , Poland. (2)b Department of Immunology,
Transplantology and Internal Diseases , Medical University of Warsaw , Warsaw ,
Poland. (3)c Genomic Medicine , Medical University of Warsaw , Warsaw , Poland.
(4)d Laboratory of Human Cancer Genetics, Centre of New Technologies, CENT ,
University of Warsaw , Warsaw , Poland. (5)e Department of Cardiology,
Hypertension and Internal Medicine, Second Faculty of Medicine , Medical
University of Warsaw , Warsaw , Poland.

Multiple factors underlie the pathophysiology of hypertension, involving
endothelial dysregulation, vascular smooth muscle dysfunction, increased
oxidative stress, sympathetic nervous system activation and altered renin
-angiotensin -aldosterone regulatory activity. A class of non-coding RNA called
microRNA, consisting of 17-25 nucleotides, exert regulatory function over these
processes. This paper summarizes the currently available data from preclinical
and clinical studies on miRNA in the development of hypertension as well as the
impact of anti-hypertensive treatment on their plasma expression. We present
microRNAs' characteristics, their biogenesis and role in the regulation of blood 
pressure together with their potential diagnostic and therapeutic application in 
clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3109/08037051.2016.1167355 
PMID: 27177042  [PubMed - in process]


114. Cerebrovasc Dis. 2016;42(3-4):255-62. doi: 10.1159/000446082. Epub 2016 May 14.

Hypertension and the Brain: A Risk Factor for More Than Heart Disease.

Meissner A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona,
Spain.

BACKGROUND: Cerebral small vessel disease (cSVD), a common risk factor for
cognitive impairment, involves unspecific arteriopathy characterized by
hypertrophy and endothelial dysfunction that alter cerebrovascular function and
auto-regulation of cerebral blood flow (CBF). Microbleedings, subcortical lacunar
infarctions and diffuse areas of white matter lesions resulting from vascular
injury are associated with reduced cognitive function mostly characterized by
difficulties in learning and retention, attention deficits, gait disorders or
depression. In recent years, it has become evident that vascular risk factors
contribute to the development of cSVD and associated vascular cognitive
impairment (VCI). Among them, hypertension emerged as such a major modifiable
risk factor since the brain presents an early target for organ damage due to
changes in blood pressure (BP). Subsequently both high and, especially in the
elderly, low BP have been linked to cognitive decline, which initiated
controversial discussions about BP control as a potential therapeutic strategy to
achieve optimal brain perfusion and thus, reduce the occurrence of cSVD and
cognitive dysfunction. Yet, recent randomized controlled trials examined the
impact of anti-hypertensive therapy on cognitive performance with conflicting
results.
SUMMARY: In light of the current knowledge, it becomes apparent that there is an 
urgent need to understand the mechanisms underlying hypertension-induced
cerebrovascular complications in order to identify effective therapeutic targets 
to prevent and most importantly also reverse cognitive decline mediated through
hypertension.
KEY MESSAGE: This review summarizes the current knowledge of cSVD pathogenesis as
well as possible links to hypertension-mediated cerebrovascular complications. By
pointing out knowledge gaps, it aims to spur future studies in search of specific
targets helping to prevent therapy failures and decelerate the rapidly
progressing neuro-degeneration of patients suffering from cerebrovascular
diseases emanating from hypertension.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000446082 
PMID: 27173592  [PubMed - in process]


115. Klin Med (Mosk). 2016;94(1):52-6.

[HYPERTENSIVE CRISIS: MODERN VIEW OF THE PROBLEM AND OPTIMIZATION OF DIAGNOSTIC
AND THERAPEUTIC MODALITIES].

[Article in Russian]

Kryukov EV, Potekhin NP, Fursov AN, Chernetsov VA, Chernov SA, Zakharova EG.

The data collected by Burdenko Military Hospital indicate that in the 1980s
hypertensive crisis (HC) occurred in roughly 30% of the patients with AH. This
value fell down to 16% by 2012, with a rise in the number of uncomplicated crises
from 46 to 62%. Analysis of the causes behind these changes showed that half of
the patients simply experienced an elevated arterial pressure with minimal
clinical symptoms. The decrease in the number of complicated cases from 54 to 39%
is doubtful bearing in mind that ICD-10 gives the status of nosological entities 
to complications of hypertensive crisis (stroke, myocardial infarction, etc.) but
not to the HC syndrome proper requiring urgent hospitalization; due to this
hypertensive crisis itself tends to be disregarded and not included in
statistics. HC with acute clinically significant lesions of target organs
requires intensive care or resuscitation using infusion of vasodilators and loop 
diuretics to stabilize arterial pressure. In case of uncomplicted HC and
aggravation of hypertensive disease, the medications of choice are oral
short-acting ACE inhibitors and imidazoline receptor agonists.


PMID: 27172724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Klin Med (Mosk). 2016;94(1):36-8.

[THE PROGRAM OF PHYSICAL REHABILITATION FOR PATIENTS WITH CORONARY HEART DISEASE 
AND HYPERTENSIVE DISEASE].

[Article in Russian]

Makarova IN, Starikov SM, Bolotov DD.

The authors demonstrate the importance of individual criteria for the choice of
dosed physical load for the patients with cardiological problems during
hospitalization. The analysis of the functional state and hemodynamic parameters 
included 68 patients with various cardiovascular diseases before and after
performance of the special program of physical rehabilitation. The results
suggest high efficiency of the proposed treatment and good prospects for further 
studies in this field.


PMID: 27172720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Klin Med (Mosk). 2016;94(1):16-22.

[HOMOCYSTEINE AS A PROGNOSTIC MARKER OF ATRIAL REMODELING AND CLINICAL PICTURE IN
PATIENTS WITH PAROXYSMAL AND PERSISTENT FORMS OF ATRIAL FIBRILLATION].

[Article in Russian]

Snezhitsky VA, Yatskevich ES, Doroshenko EM, Smirnov VY, Dolgoshey TS, Rubinsky
AY.

The aim of this work was to study prognostic significance of the relationship
between the homocysteine level, structural/functional atrial remodeling, and
clinical picture of paroxysmal and persistent forms of atrial fibrillation (AF). 
The study included 75 patients with AF concomitant with coronary heart disease
and hypertensive disease without apparent structural changes in myocardium. Group
1 was comprised of 48 patients with paroxysmal AF, group 2 of 27 patients with
persistent AF. 19 patients with coronary heart disease and hypertensive disease
without AF served as controls. The structural and functional state of the heart
was evaluated based on two-dimensional trans-thoracal echocardiography with the
use of the formulas for calculating left ventricular characteristics. Blood
homocysteine levels were measured The frequency of AF relapses was determined
after an 1 year follow-up. The homocysteine level over 11.2 mcmol/l was related
to left ventricle enlargement (over 40 mm), high frequency and relapse rate of
AF. It is concluded that the relationship between homocysteine levels, left
ventricle size, frequency and relapse rate of AF suggests the influence of
homocysteine on atrial remodeling. A rise in the homocysteine level above 11
mcmol/l should be regarded as a prognostic factor of increased AF relapse rate.


PMID: 27172716  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


118. PLoS One. 2016 May 11;11(5):e0155116. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0155116.
eCollection 2016.

Associations of Sleep Quality and Awake Physical Activity with Fluctuations in
Nocturnal Blood Pressure in Patients with Cardiovascular Risk Factors.

Kadoya M(1), Koyama H(1), Kurajoh M(1), Naka M(1), Miyoshi A(1), Kanzaki A(1),
Kakutani M(1), Shoji T(1), Moriwaki Y(1), Yamamoto T(1), Inaba M(2), Namba M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology and
Metabolism, Hyogo College of Medicine, 1-1 Mukogawa-cho, Nishinomiya, Hyogo
663-8501, Japan. (2)Department of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Molecular
Medicine, Osaka City University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka 545-8585,
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Sleep quality and awake physical activity are important behavioral
factors involved in the occurrence of cardiovascular diseases, potentially
through nocturnal blood pressure (BP) changes. However, the impacts of
quantitatively measured sleep quality and awake physical activity on BP
fluctuation, and their relationships with several candidate causal factors for
nocturnal hypertension are not well elucidated.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study included 303 patients registered in the HSCAA
study. Measurements included quantitatively determined sleep quality parameters
and awake physical activity obtained by actigraph, nocturnal systolic BP (SBP)
fall [100 × (1- sleep SBP/awake SBP ratio)], apnea hypopnea index, urinary sodium
and cortisol secretion, plasma aldosterone concentration and renin activity,
insulin resistance index, parameters of heart rate variability (HRV), and plasma 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF).
RESULTS: Simple regression analysis showed that time awake after sleep onset (r =
-0.150), a parameter of sleep quality, and awake physical activity (r = 0.164)
were significantly correlated with nocturnal SBP fall. Among those, time awake
after sleep onset (β = -0.179) and awake physical activity (β = 0.190) were
significantly and independently associated with nocturnal SBP fall in multiple
regression analysis. In a subgroup of patients without taking anti-hypertensive
medications, both time awake after sleep onset (β = -0.336) and awake physical
activity (β = 0.489) were more strongly and independently associated with
nocturnal SBP falls.
CONCLUSION: Sleep quality and awake physical activity were found to be
significantly associated with nocturnal SBP fall, and that relationship was not
necessarily confounded by candidate causal factors for nocturnal hypertension.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0155116 
PMCID: PMC4864358
PMID: 27166822  [PubMed - in process]


119. J Midwifery Womens Health. 2016 May;61(3):315-24. doi: 10.1111/jmwh.12469. Epub
2016 May 6.

Preeclampsia and the Risk of Future Vascular Disease and Mortality: A Review.

Leslie MS, Briggs LA.

INTRODUCTION: Preeclampsia increases a woman's long-term risk of vascular disease
and/or death including chronic hypertension, myocardial infarction, heart
failure, stroke, and venous thromboembolism. The literature suggests that
maternity care providers may be unaware of this association.
METHODS: A database search was conducted examining the long-term effects of
hypertensive disorders of pregnancy using MEDLINE, Scopus, CINAHL, ISI Web of
Knowledge, and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Inclusion criteria
were: 1) English language, 2) peer-reviewed journals, 3) January 2000 to July
2015, 4) systematic reviews with or without meta-analyses, and 5) studies that
addressed the relationship between hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and
vascular disease such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease (CVD), and
cerebrovascular diseases.
RESULTS: Three systematic reviews with meta-analysis qualified for this review.
They represented 48 unique studies from 20 countries and included a total of
3,598,601 women. Preeclampsia was associated with a 3-fold increased risk for
developing chronic hypertension. Compared with normotensive women, those with
preeclampsia experienced double the risk, or more, for CVD or CVD-related
mortality. Preeclampsia was also associated with approximately double the risk
for fatal or nonfatal stroke.
DISCUSSION: Preeclampsia is associated with an increased risk for future chronic 
hypertension, CVD, cerebrovascular disease, and death. While evidence shows that 
women with cardiac risk factors may have a higher chance of developing
preeclampsia, many women with preeclampsia have no CVD risk factors. Measures to 
prevent preeclampsia such as calcium supplementation for women with low calcium
intake and low-dose aspirin for women with a history of more than one incident of
preeclampsia or a preterm birth associated with preeclampsia are supported by
evidence. Reduction of modifiable risks associated with CVD before, during, and
after pregnancy is recommended. All care providers and women should be educated
regarding these risks and the importance of pregnancy history to future health.

© 2016 by the American College of Nurse-Midwives.

DOI: 10.1111/jmwh.12469 
PMID: 27155218  [PubMed - in process]


120. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 May;95(18):e3596. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000003596.

Midlife Ankylosing Spondylitis Increases the Risk of Cardiovascular Diseases in
Males 5 Years Later: A National Population-Based Study.

Hung YM(1), Chang WP, Wei JC, Chou P, Wang PY.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Emergency Medicine (Y-MH), Kaohsiung Veterans General
Hospital, Kaohsiung; School of Health Care Administration (W-PC), Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei City, Taiwan; Department of Healthcare Management, Yuanpei
University, HsinChu, Taiwan; Division of Allergy (JC-CW), Immunology and
Rheumatology, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital; Institute of Medicine,
Chung Shan Medical University; Graduate Institute of Integrated Medicine (JC-CW),
China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan; Institute of Public Health (Y-MH,
PC), School of Medicine, National Yang Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan; and
Division of Nephrology (Y-PW), Kaiser Permanente Baldwin Park Medical Center,
Baldwin Park, CA.

There are limited studies describing the association between ankylosing
spondylitis (AS) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in patients over 40 years old. 
We aimed to focus on the incident AS patients in those aged 40 years or older and
to investigate whether events of CVD occurred more than the general population.We
conducted a nationwide cohort study between 2000 and 2005 using the Taiwan
National Health Insurance Research Database. The risk of newly diagnosed CVD was 
compared between incident AS patients and matched age- and sex-matched subjects
without AS. Events of CVDs were classified into 1 of 5 subcategories:
hypertensive heart disease, coronary heart disease, congestive heart failure,
cerebrovascular disease, or "other" CVD according to the ICD-9-CM codes.
Cumulative incidences and hazard ratios (HRs) were calculated after adjusting for
demographic and comorbid medical disorders. Multivariate analyses were performed 
using Cox proportional hazards model.We compared 537 AS and 2685 non-AS patients 
and found that the cumulative incidence rate of CVD during follow-up period was
higher in the AS cohort than the non-AS cohort. The crude HR of CVD for the AS
group was 1.24 [95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.05-1.46; P = 0.01] and the
adjusted HR was 1.20 with 95% CI 1.02 to 1.42 (P = 0.03). When stratified by age,
AS cohort at age 60 to 69 years exhibited a significantly higher HR for all CVD
than the general population cohort (adjusted HR 1.48, 95% CI 1.06-2.08,
P < 0.05). When stratified by gender, male AS group had a significantly higher HR
for all CVD than the general population cohort with the adjusted HR 1.28 (95% CI 
1.01-1.63, P < 0.05). There was no statistically significant difference for
females.Patients with AS, especially age 60 to 69 years male patients, had a
higher risk of CVDs than non-AS controls.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000003596 
PMCID: PMC4863808
PMID: 27149491  [PubMed - in process]


121. Blood Press. 2016 Dec;25(6):364-372. Epub 2016 May 5.

Relationship of diastolic function to new or persistent electrocardiographic left
ventricular hypertrophy.

Tanoue MT(1), Kjeldsen SE(2), Devereux RB(1), Okin PM(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Greenberg Division of Cardiology , Weill Cornell Medical College , New York 
, NY , USA. (2)b Ullevål Hospital, Oslo, Norway and University of Michigan
Medical Center , Ann Arbor , MI , USA.

Comment on
    Ann Noninvasive Electrocardiol. 2014 Nov;19(6):552-60.

BACKGROUND: Persistence or development of Cornell product left ventricular
hypertrophy (LVH) is associated with increased heart failure (HF) risk that is
partly explained by greater LV systolic dysfunction. However, whether new or
persistent Cornell product LVH during antihypertensive treatment is associated
with worse LV diastolic function is unclear.
METHODS: Left ventricular diastolic function was examined in relation to year-3
ECG LVH in 377 hypertensive patients with a preserved LV ejection fraction (>45%)
at year-3. Cornell product >2440 mm·ms defined ECG LVH.
RESULTS: In multivariate models adjusting for age, sex, change from baseline to
year-3 systolic blood pressure, and baseline and change from baseline to year-3
Sokolow-Lyon voltage, persistent or new Cornell product LVH at year-3 remained
associated with year-3 abnormal half filling time (OR 1.63, 95% CI 1.04-2.55
p = 0.034), with a trend toward higher odds of abnormal third filling time (OR
1.51, 95% CI 0.087 p = 0.087) and total filling time (OR 1.79, CI 0.98-3.27
p = 0.059).
CONCLUSION: In hypertensive patients undergoing antihypertensive therapy,
persistence or development of Cornell product ECG LVH at year-3 follow-up is
modestly associated with LV diastolic dysfunction. These findings suggest that
diastolic dysfunction may be a mechanism via which changing ECG LVH influences HF
risk.

DOI: 10.1080/08037051.2016.1179514 
PMID: 27146272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Indian J Endocrinol Metab. 2016 Apr;20(Suppl 1):S26-32. doi:
10.4103/2230-8210.179771.

Perceptions and practices related to diabetes reported by persons with diabetes
attending diabetic care clinics: The India 11-city 9-state study.

Gudlavalleti MV(1), Anchala R(2), Gudlavalleti AS(2), Ramachandra SS(2), Shukla
R(2), Jotheeswaran AT(2), Babu RG(2), Singh V(2), Allagh K(2), Sagar J(2),
Bandyopadhyay S(2), Gilbert CE(3).

Author information: 
(1)South Asia Centre for Disability Inclusive Development Research, Indian
Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India, ANV Arcade, 1 Amar
Cooperative Society, Kavuri Hills, Madhapur, Hyderabad, Telangana, India;
International Centre for Eye Health, Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases,
Department of Clinical Research, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
London, UK. (2)South Asia Centre for Disability Inclusive Development Research,
Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India, ANV Arcade,
1 Amar Cooperative Society, Kavuri Hills, Madhapur, Hyderabad, Telangana, India. 
(3)International Centre for Eye Health, Faculty of Infectious and Tropical
Diseases, Department of Clinical Research, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: India has the second largest population of persons with diabetes and 
a significant proportion has poor glycemic control and inadequate awareness of
management of diabetes.
OBJECTIVES: Determine the level of awareness regarding management of diabetes and
its complications and diabetic care practices in India.
METHODS: The cross-sectional, hospital-based survey was conducted in 11 cities
where public and private providers of diabetic care were identified. At each
diabetic care facility, 4-6 persons with diabetes were administered a structured 
questionnaire in the local language.
RESULTS: Two hundred and eighty-five persons with diabetes were interviewed. The 
mean duration since diagnosis of diabetes was 8.1 years (standard deviation ±
7.3). Half of the participants reported a family history of diabetes and 41.7%
were hypertensive. Almost 62.1% stated that they received information on diabetes
and its management through interpersonal channels. Family history (36.1%),
increasing age (25.3%), and stress (22.8%) were the commonest causes of diabetes 
reported. Only 29.1% stated that they monitored their blood sugar levels at home 
using a glucometer. The commonest challenges reported in managing diabetes were
dietary modifications (67.4%), compliance with medicines (20.5%), and cost of
medicines (17.9%). Around 76.5% were aware of complications of diabetes. Kidney
failure (79.8%), blindness/vision loss (79.3%), and heart attack (56.4%) were the
commonest complications mentioned. Almost 67.7% of the respondents stated that
they had had an eye examination earlier.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings have significant implications for the organization of
diabetes services in India for early detection and management of complications,
including eye complications.

DOI: 10.4103/2230-8210.179771 
PMCID: PMC4847446
PMID: 27144133  [PubMed]


123. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Apr 26. pii: S0014-4835(16)30093-8. doi:
10.1016/j.exer.2016.04.020. [Epub ahead of print]

ATP sensitive potassium channel openers: A new class of ocular hypotensive
agents.

Roy Chowdhury U(1), Dosa PI(2), Fautsch MP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905,
United States. Electronic address: roychowdhury.uttio@mayo.edu. (2)Institute for 
Therapeutics Discovery and Development, Department of Medicinal Chemistry,
University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware Street SE, Minneapolis, MN 55414, United
States. Electronic address: pidosa@umn.edu. (3)Dept. of Ophthalmology, Mayo
Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905, United States. Electronic
address: fautsch.michael@mayo.edu.

ATP sensitive potassium (KATP) channels connect the metabolic and energetic state
of cells due to their sensitivity to ATP and ADP concentrations. KATP channels
have been identified in multiple tissues and organs of the body including heart, 
pancreas, vascular smooth muscles and skeletal muscles. These channels are
obligatory hetero-octamers and contain four sulfonylurea (SUR) and four potassium
inward rectifier (Kir) subunits. Based on the particular type of SUR and Kir
present, there are several tissue specific subtypes of KATP channels, each with
their own unique set of functions. Recently, KATP channels have been reported in 
human and mouse ocular tissues. In ex vivo and in vivo model systems, KATP
channel openers showed significant ocular hypotensive properties with no
appearance of toxic side effects. Additionally, when used in conjunction with
known intraocular pressure lowering drugs, an additive effect on IOP reduction
was observed. These KATP channel openers have also been reported to protect the
retinal ganglion cells during ischemic stress and glutamate induced toxicity
suggesting a neuroprotective property for this drug class. Medications that are
currently used for treating ocular hypertensive diseases like glaucoma do not
directly protect the affected retinal cells, are sometimes ineffective and may
show significant side effects. In light of this, KATP channel openers with both
ocular hypotensive and neuroprotective properties, have the potential to develop 
into a new class of glaucoma therapeutics.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.04.020 
PMCID: PMC5081279 [Available on 2017-10-26]
PMID: 27130546  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


124. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2016 Apr 27;13(5). pii: E447. doi:
10.3390/ijerph13050447.

Gender, Age and Season as Modifiers of the Effects of Diurnal Temperature Range
on Emergency Room Admissions for Cause-Specific Cardiovascular Disease among the 
Elderly in Beijing.

Zheng S(1), Wang M(2), Li B(3), Wang S(4,)(5), He S(6), Yin L(7), Shang K(8), Li 
T(9).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Epidemiology and Statistics, School of Public Health, Lanzhou
University, Lanzhou 73000, China. zhengsh@lzu.edu.cn. (2)Institute of
Epidemiology and Statistics, School of Public Health, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou
73000, China. wangmzh@lzu.edu.cn. (3)General Hospital of PLA, Beijng 100853,
China. libei301@163.com. (4)College of Atmospheric Sciences, Lanzhou University, 
Lanzhou 730000, China. wangsg@lzu.edu.cn. (5)School of Atmospheric Sciences,
Chengdu University of Information Technology, Chengdu 610225, China.
wangsg@lzu.edu.cn. (6)General Hospital of PLA, Beijng 100853, China.
heshilin301@163.com. (7)General Hospital of PLA, Beijng 100853, China.
yinling301@126.com. (8)College of Atmospheric Sciences, Lanzhou University,
Lanzhou 730000, China. shangkz@lzu.edu.cn. (9)General Hospital of PLA, Beijng
100853, China. lts301@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Diurnal temperature range (DTR) is an important index of climate
change and variability. It is also a risk factor affecting human health. However,
limited evidence is available to illustrate the effect of DTR modification on
cause-specific cardiovascular disease among the elderly.
METHODS: A semi-parametric generalized additive model (GAM) was used to analyze
the exposure-effect relationship between DTR and daily emergency room (ER)
admissions for cause-specific cardiovascular diseases among the elderly from 2009
to 2011 in Beijing. We examined the effects of DTR for stratified groups by
gender and age, and examined the effects of DTR in the warm season and cold
season for cause-specific cardiovascular diseases.
RESULTS: Significant associations were found between DTR and ER admissions for
all cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease among elderly males, while DTR was
significantly associated with ER admissions for all cardiovascular disease,
ischemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease among elderly females. People 
aged 75 years and older were more vulnerable to DTR. DTR 